Happy 10 years.
>> Happy 10 year anniversary, Ben.
>> It's crazy. It's been 10 years.
>> I know. Here we are. Brought you down
here to Silicon Valley to uh record our
10y year anniversary holiday special
here. I wanted a special place.
>> Yeah. What are we doing? You keep like
teeing up like, "Oh, just come down. Oh,
we'll just record it here." And like
clearly we're not at your house.
>> I was actually thinking uh we should try
and find the Silicon Valley house. The
Eric Bachman Aviato.
>> This Aviato.
>> Aviato. Pabato.
Now, the reason I brought you down here
is I booked us a very special place to
record. It's actually right over here.
>> It's a house.
>> Is this the Google house?
>> It's the house.
>> The where they had their first office in
the garage.
>> This is Google's first office right
here. They gave it to us for the day.
>> Like, we can do our holiday special in
it.
>> Come on in.
Who got the truth? [music]
Is it you? Is it you? Is it you? Who got
the truth now?
Is [music] it you? Is it you? Is it you?
Sit me down. Say it straight. Another
story on the way. Who got the truth?
Welcome to the fall 2025 season finale
of Acquired, the podcast about great
companies and the stories and playbooks
behind them. I'm Ben Gilbert.
>> I'm David Rosenthal.
>> And we are your hosts. Well, listeners,
today we're going to do something very
different than our holiday specials of
years past. We've received a bunch of
requests over the years to do an
Acquired episode on Acquired itself and
to unpack why acquired worked when 99%
of podcasts do not. But it's always felt
a little bit strange to me and we've
always shied away from analyzing our own
company.
>> Yep. But then this year we turned 10
years old and thought, well, maybe it's
time for something [laughter] at least a
sort of uh pause and reflection, you
know, to shout out the Coca-Cola
episode.
>> Oh.
>> On our journey to this point and why
acquired has worked.
>> And so we thought, well, if we're going
to do something, we should bring someone
in to do it with us. And we'd want
someone who is great at dissecting the
mechanics behind teams or companies.
Someone who distills complexity into
simplicity. Someone who himself knows
how to tell a great story. And there was
really only one choice.
Michael Lewis, author of Moneyball,
Liars Poker, The Blind Side, The Undoing
Project, Going Infinite, on and on and
on. And of course, host of his own
podcast, Against the Rules. And Ben, you
and I have looked up to Michael forever.
So, this was really special.
>> Yes. And then, of course, there's the
venue. We thought it'd be a fitting way
to cap off the year of our three-part
Google series to record in the literal
garage where that nearly $4 trillion
company got started.
>> Yes, indeed. Well, listeners, if you
want to know every time an episode
drops, vote on future episode topics,
and get corrections on past episodes,
check out our email list at
acquired.fm/e.
And that email list just got a whole lot
better with our first overhaul in five
years. So you'll now get episode
summaries, our big takeaways, and
exclusive photos from our research
process. That's acquired.fm/e.
Chat about this episode with us and the
whole Acquired community in Slack.
Acquired.fm/slack.
And if you want more acquired, check out
our interview show, ACQ2. Our last
episode was with Andrew Ross Sorcin,
founder of the New York Times Deal Book,
host of CNBC's Squawkbox, and author of
1929. That's ACQ2 in any podcast player.
And before we dive in, we want to
briefly thank our presenting partner, JP
Morgan Payments. Yes, just like how we
say every company has a story, every
company's story is powered by payments.
And JP Morgan Payments is a part of so
many of their journeys from seed to IPO
and beyond.
>> So with that, this show is not
investment advice. David and I may have
investments in the companies we discuss
and this show is forformational and
entertainment purposes only.
>> With that, onto our conversation with
Michael Lewis.
>> Well, Michael, thank you for joining us.
>> Total pleasure.
>> We have a little something since this is
our 10 year anniversary that we're
celebrating that we need to do before we
start.
>> Okay.
>> So, you went to Princeton. I went to
Princeton.
>> Yep.
>> My senior thesis would become impactful
for acquired. Um, I was a French
literature major. I wrote my thesis on
the history of Dom Perin and the
marketing history of
>> very serious college [laughter] student
a little different than yours.
>> They let you do that.
>> They they uh somehow [laughter] I conned
the French department into letting me do
this and what probably 12 13 years later
we made our LVMH episode and uh it was a
big moment for a choir. Muent Chandon
has just released the 2015 vintage
>> on Don Perry. 2015 is the year we
started.
>> So I thought you were gonna say uh that
the that the effect that the Princeton
thesis had on on Acquired. I didn't
think it was as specific as that, but I
feel like when I'm listening to your
episodes, I'm listening to someone who's
worked for up to a thesis that that it
is thesis like immersion in a subject.
Well, I can tell you our episodes are
much better than my actual thesis was,
[laughter]
>> but but that is exactly how it feels.
>> But that is the process we go through.
>> Yeah. And cramming for finals the night
before. There's a lot of like academic
feelings that happen as we get close to
recording day.
>> So, um it's your show and I don't want
to take it over, but I but I wanted I
wanted to start by saying that I didn't
discover it until this year. Uh I disco
in July. Uh uh I was at Google camp,
which is kind of a good way to discover
acquired. Uh, and
>> we should talk about where we are now,
too.
>> And we we are sitting in the Google uh
garage where Yes.
>> I mean, I don't know exactly. I'm not
sure exactly what happened in the Google
garage. So, this was the it's a nice
idea.
>> Like, literally, uh, Susan would just
ski lived here. She I think this was her
house. She had just bought the house
>> and was looking to sublet part of it,
like just make some extra money on other
people using the house. posted a
bulletin notice on the Stanford campus
that there was space available here.
>> And so Larry and Sergey's first desks
when they got kicked out of Stanford's
offices were right there.
>> Right here.
>> I I actually think this actual door saw
is the one that they were using cuz
Google pulled it out of storage for us.
>> So I'm at this camp with a lot of kind
of well-known people and a prominent CEO
uh says to me, "You ought to listen.
have you listened to acquired? And I
didn't know what he was talking about.
And I went and listened I can't remember
what I listened to first. I think it
might have been the Morris Chang uh
episode, but I had about eight different
reactions to all positive. I and I
thought this is it's kind of amazing
which you all are doing. So I then I was
from July until now I've listened to
maybe 10 of the episodes which is a lot
of a lot of hours of listening to this.
The first thing struck me could not
believe you were getting away with with
a 4hour podcast and um and I couldn't
believe that even after four hours I was
still kind of looking for even more that
that you you created you created the
environment with the podcast that I
tried to create with the book. you grab
the listener like I try to grab a reader
and get them to the state of mind where
they'll let you take them anywhere uh
and teach them about stuff that they
don't even know they want to learn
about.
>> I think if we're going to we're doing
this as a 10th anniversary sort of
celebration. Yeah.
>> I'm honored and I feel like kind of like
I'm going to let a lot out of my depth
here because I'm just a new listener and
I haven't listened to all of it. I'm
hardly the world's authority on your on
your podcast and I didn't prepare at all
except to listen to it [laughter]
except I did one thing and that was I
went back and listened to your very
first.
>> Oh wow. Oh wow.
>> Just [laughter] to compare
>> and be kind please.
>> It is shocking how different it is from
you where where you started from where
you have you probably haven't ended up
but where you are now. So, I'm going to
start by this 10-year journey.
I think I can see some things you've
learned.
>> Oh, but I I want to know what you think
you've learned. Give me Let's do the 10
lessons from the 10 year the 10 year
journey.
>> Do you have yours like crystallized
because I don't want to taint you.
>> No, no, no. I do have It's actually one
big thing. Uh and um and I'll and if you
if you say it, I'll acknowledge that you
you know sunk my battleship and I have
nothing to add. [laughter]
Uh but it's it's I'm I'm I'm curious
what you think. There's no way that
first thing you did was ever going to
become a hit. [laughter]
>> Well, it's I'm I'm curious if you think
I've always believed something that's
always been there from the beginning is
the magic between me and Ben.
>> That's interesting to me. You all meet
at like a Passover seder.
>> Yes.
>> And your colleague, you have been
colleagues at a VC firm.
>> Yep.
>> I'll come back to that. I want come I
want to talk a little bit about you as
investors, but we'll come back to that
[laughter] boy and how that's different
from being a podcaster. But at what
point do you decide that oh there's a
kind of odd chemistry here?
>> Well, we really just wanted to spend
more time together. It was one of these
things where
>> you're both straight.
>> Yeah. Okay. This is married.
>> It's not a It's not a romantic relation.
>> We We like to say that we each have two
spouses. We have our actual romantic
spouses that we have families with
>> and then we have each other.
>> David and I shared a bank account before
my wife and I shared a bank account.
>> So, are either of your spouses
threatened by the relationship?
>> No. [laughter]
from just from a sheer time perspective.
I mean, a little bit.
>> My spouse loves it because she doesn't
actually want to spend that much time
with me. She likes [laughter] like, you
know, I used to I used to all the stuff
we do on acquired, I used to just talk
at her and she wasn't interested.
>> That is true. [laughter]
She loves it cuz I get to talk to, you
know,
>> although she gets the rough draft. Like
my wife won't listen to episodes because
she's like I' I've already heard four
versions of the episode and
unfortunately I heard like four worse
versions and because I endure that and
give you feedback the listener actually
gets the better version.
>> Right. So you so you meet you meet and
there's a chemistry.
>> Yeah.
>> Explain that chemistry like what what is
it that you when you what is it that
makes you excited to see each other?
>> David knew all the Apple rumors in real
time just like I did.
>> Uh you had read all the latest stratey
posts. We bonded over Ben Thompson
originally.
>> And I think you can tell me if this is
mutual, but I looked up to you because
you were doing a thing that was
mysterious to me, which was venture
capital. I was a software engineer and I
got hired to work at a venture firm to
do some incubation work, but I didn't
know anything about like the real job of
venture capital. And here's David,
someone who's just a few years older
than me, like doing that thing, but kind
of in my like peer age group. And I
could I could like lean over and be
like, "What what are they talking
about?"
>> Well, it's I I kind of felt like a fraud
in a lot of ways as a like I I repressed
this deep down like uh but if I'm honest
with myself, I think I felt like a fraud
as a VC because I'd never but I I went I
went to Princeton. I was a French
literature major. I worked on Wall
Street. I worked briefly at the Wall
Street Journal and then I became a
venture capitalist. I had no
qualification to
>> Have you ever coded coded or you ever
done anything? I mean, I took some CS
classes in college, but like I'd never
built anything. And so I was like, Ben
built all these things. Like you built
the the this for that website. You you
built so many products. You had products
that millions of people use. And I was
like,
>> I'm just masquerading here.
>> That Ben knew stuff that was exciting
for you to to know about.
>> Yes.
>> Did you feel that David knew stuff?
>> Absolutely.
>> What kind of stuff?
>> Business.
>> Really?
It was No, no, no. I I only found out
years into doing acquired he was a
French lit major.
>> Huh.
>> But that's important that French that
that background
>> it ended up becoming
>> kind of broad curiosity about things
other than business and technology. I I
hear it in your program.
>> I hear it in your podcast. So what I'm
thinking of in my head is Conoran
interverski
>> uh that I wrote a book called the
undoing project and and and you could
see if you could see two people and then
it got me thinking about collaboration
and the I've had exciting collaborations
with people and the feeling I get is
>> this person is making is bringing out a
better version of me which is why I
asked if your spouses were threatened
because the because Conor and Diverski's
spouses were threatened is too strong a
word but they were very aware that the
relationship that that was the most
important in their lives was with not
with their spouse but with with
>> I got the sense from the undoing project
that um Conoran and Tverki's
relationship was very intense.
>> Mhm.
>> I I don't know that I would describe our
relationship and
yes it was
>> and competitive [laughter]
>> compet was not competitive on Danny
Conorman felt um was was always at felt
at risk of being dismissed thought the
lesser partner. Um, there was a status
difference between the two of them,
right? Going into it. Uh, everyone in
the world thought Amos was the smartest
person they'd ever met.
>> You two didn't have that ever have any
of that.
>> Not for me.
>> But you said you felt like a fraud.
>> I think I felt lesser. Like there were a
lot of things when we started doing
Acquired where we were doing this like
business analysis podcast, but I didn't
know finance.
>> Like it was
>> funny. You've become more, you know, the
keeper of the analysis on acquired
>> and I'm more the keeper of the story.
It's different though than a difference
in status. I don't feel that you or I
have ever felt we had a difference in
status and and the number of like fights
we've had or or real tension we've had
is like two three ever in 10 years. I
mean it's it's weirdly
>> let's come back to those and let's get
to the lessons. What have you learned?
>> We started thinking about what have we
learned from the companies we've covered
that we've then applied
>> Yep.
>> to acquired.
>> All right. In particular, it's it
acquired has clearly worked. Why? And
does that why have something to do with
the fact that we study the world's best
companies? Like is there some osmosis
that happens from the subject matter
bleeding into the property itself?
>> And
>> so that's our frame.
>> Okay, let's let's go with that frame.
>> Yes. So the the one I was going to start
with [laughter]
is the NFL. The product is scarce. you
know, 162 baseball games a year. It's
called America's pastime. You pass a lot
of time with it.
>> But with the NFL,
>> because the product is scarce and then
they have very smartly cultivated that
and engineered it to be more scarce,
more of an event driven sport. That's
made all the difference. And like to me,
as I look at what like what we do is
insane for the podcasting industry. Like
it's completely insane. We release for
the last three years we've released 12
episodes and next year we're going to do
eight eight episodes for the whole year.
>> No. As a hobbyist podcaster, what I get
told is you have to be on all the time.
>> Yep.
>> And I I can't do it and so I'm not going
to do it.
>> Podcasting is like your second or third
thing that you do, right? And you make
more episodes, I think, per year than we
do.
>> That's correct. But they're just, you
know, they're it's except for the
scripted ones which I do throw myself
into. It really is. I do no preparation
and it is a conver and I don't do don't
do very much of those. The script of
ones I I do put time into and and but
it's it's a different sort of thing than
what you're doing. It tends to be a very
narrow little story that I'm telling.
You you didn't start out though.
>> We used to make 26 episodes a year, you
know. Uh
>> they were 40 minutes long to an hour 20.
So, how do you go from that to realizing
and did you really learn it from the NFL
or did you just do it and then
>> we were starting to do it and then we
covered the NFL and we like aha
>> this is what we're doing.
>> Most of these things are actually I
think are confirmation bias. We get some
inkling that like we should continue to
go in this direction. Like my in calling
out Hermes it's because
>> I think quality and scarcity have become
an important part of acquired and in
some ways we like learned that from
Hermes but we covered Hermes last year.
Yeah,
>> I think we found our way to that
probably fourish years ago, maybe 5
years ago, where we used to feel like
>> we were bad at podcasting because we
couldn't make very many and because we
didn't have a whole production team and
we didn't have professional ad sales
people and we didn't have
>> we weren't full-time for a long time.
>> Yeah. And at some point we kind of
looked at each other and we're like
maybe if we just admit that we we are
heavily constrained and then try to just
lean into that constraint in the way
that Hermes leans into every single
Birkin bag must be handmade by one
artisan and we're going to build a
business model around that. And it turns
out to be a great business. We sort of
thought every episode is going to be
entirely handcrafted by us. All the
research, all the recording. We work
with this amazing audio engineer,
Stephen, who does the the like literal
waveform editing, but you know, we go in
and in a transcript highlight a thousand
cuts per episode. Like, it's this made
with love product. And it turned out we
could actually build a big platform and
a good business out of something heavily
constrained.
>> But that's not where you start.
>> No, no, no.
So, let's just people who don't know,
where you start is you're two guys
who've met each other. Y
>> and and got a crush on each on each
other. You're being you love being with
each other
>> and you you're going to you get this
idea that oh it would be really cool to
do a podcast on corporate acquisitions
that worked.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> That worked and bad idea that well it is
an idea. I I would find [laughter]
you could easily have started the
opposite corporate acquisitions that
didn't and you'd have done much you had
much more material
>> which is what most press at the time
was. It was let's talk about how crappy
this acquisition It's interesting to me
that your first step right from the
start is positive. It's like what
worked, not what didn't work, it's what
worked.
>> That's cuz we were VCs and I was trying
to build companies. I mean that the goal
was create things that have enough value
to get bought and or or go public. And
when people buy things, it's because
they're working. So let's try to reverse
engineer
>> understand why things worked.
>> Right? So that's a different starting
spot from almost all journalism.
>> Yeah. In fact, if most journalists
started there, they'd be accused of
heography of yes that but you but you
because of where you where you're coming
from and because you're thinking of this
in very practical terms like how why did
this work?
>> You do get away with it. It's just that
first episode you're almost like
different people. But I'm going to hold
back on what I think you learned because
I want to see if you get to it. So we
got two. What's the third episode that
you have learned some a lesson from?
I think Berkshire we learned so many
things from. We did this three-part uh
I have not listened to it and I am a big
investor in Berkshire Hathaway.
>> Good for you. Well,
>> since when
>> I bought it right at in in the middle of
the financial crisis
>> uh because I thought I I mean I had done
a take I mean it's not it's a little
putting a little strongly but oddly I
had written a takedown of Warren Buffett
on the cover of the New Republic
magazine called the temptation of St.
Warren. You can probably dig it off off
of the way back.
>> What was the thesis? The thesis was that
he may have started out being who he
says he is, but that he's become this
very different thing in the marketplace.
His money is not like other people's
money.
>> And you don't have a couple of things
Warren Buffett has. And his money is
valued differently. But secondly, he was
willing to do deals that I at the time
bothered the hell out of me. And what
had happened was like the Goldman De was
a Solomon Brothers deal that bothered
the hell of me. He kept he kept a CEO in
place who I thought should not have been
Were you there? I was there.
>> Yeah. You you lived through it.
>> No, I was through part of our virtue
series. It turned me briefly, only
briefly actually cynical about Warren
Buffett and then I came out of it and
fell in love with him all over again.
But I had written this thing and pissed
him off entirely. I mean like I it would
clearly upset him and then kind of
started watching him for a longer and I
thought, you know, I just liked him.
Just liked him. you couldn't help but
like him. So I started to soften and
whether when we get to the financial
crisis I thought well his money is going
to be so valuable here that what is
needed is credit and I think it might if
he stays alive long enough it might
happen again soon.
>> So you invested in Berkshire before the
legendary deals coming out of the
financial crisis.
>> Yeah. And so I bought a chunk of the
ashares and I've just sat on them. And
let me tell you can I tell you a Warren
Buffett story? Yeah, I mean this is a
little talking a little bit out of
school, but uh I've never met him. Uh I
know he was really irritated with me and
then I I actually looked back at that.
It's the only time I've ever looked back
at a piece I wrote and I thought I
overdid that and went right back to the
New Republic and wrote another 5,000word
thing about Warren Buffett in which I
basically apologized for the first
piece. I bought these shares in 2008
when I was working on going infinite. I
was working on the Sam Bankman Freed
book and um I was talking to a publicist
completely unrelated to Warren Buffett
and she said, "You know, I also
represent Warren." And she said, and I
told Warren that I've been talking to
you and he said, "He has a question for
you." And I said, "What?" She says, "Is
he the is he the Michael Lewis who
bought shares back in the [laughter]
I swear to God. I swear to God." So this
tells you something about Warren Buff
more about Warren Buffett than me and
and he said he bought it like what the
book value to you know that thing that
ratio he bought it as cheap as it's ever
been and he says he says but
>> you made the best trade and then he says
then he says so he's the Michael Lewis
who
>> who sold some Burkshire Hathaway two
years ago and four years ago and he was
like why did he sell? So he's tracking I
I'm not a huge
>> I can't imagine you tracking [laughter]
Vanguard here.
>> No no no and I said well actually I
actually just gave him to charity is
what I is what I'd done. I given them
given the money away and when he heard
and she said that he'll be relieved to
hear that kind of thing. It's like so
can you imagine can you imagine that
Warren Buffin is taking the time to
watch who is coming in and out of the
ashares and and thinking about it? I I
mean I just thought he has that he and
Munger had that whole thing about don't
put your money in an index fund, put
your money in a big bundle of stocks.
Put it in a few stocks and watch those
stocks like a hawk. It's like they watch
that thing in a way that like I I just
in history has anybody ever done
anything like
>> I mean all these people are they're
maniacs. You don't build something like
this if you're not
>> That's exactly right. So anyway, sorry I
just digressed here but [laughter] you
did your what did you learn from your
Bergkshire there three episodes of
Bergkshire Hathaway? Well, as it applies
to acquired, we got really obsessed with
the circle of competence that it's okay
to have a giant two hard pile. There's a
bunch of things that like I'm not
intelligently saying no to the same all
the time would be like too hard pile.
>> Every phone call we'd have would say
pile the expression.
>> So the uh Warren and Charlie had this
thing. There was the um
>> the the like the yes pile, the no pile,
and then the too hard.
>> The two hard pile. I see. Okay. Right.
And it's okay to just like
all the technology was a too hard.
>> Yeah. It was just all Yeah. Like there
might be something in here, but like I'm
just just too hard.
>> It's basically admitting that like our
opportunity cost is so high like the the
things that we say yes to are so awesome
that it's okay to say too hard to just a
giant amount of things. And that was
really freeing once we started just like
I mean truly on most
>> So what's an example of something that
you I I'm surprised you say this what's
too hard
>> the reason that one of the reasons
besides just wanting to meet you because
you've been an inspiration to us forever
uh that I I wanted to to meet you a few
months ago was Hollywood uh we've had
lots of opportunities to work with
Hollywood
>> it keeps
>> to this point they have thus always
invariably ended up in the too hard
pile. Are you talking about doing
episodes about how income
>> creating TV shows documentaries adapting
into film these stories into films? Uh
they all sound good until we start
digging in and then we're like
>> the time it would take us to think
through all the implications of this. Uh
>> we should we should just make another
episode.
>> The answer
>> the answer almost always is we should
just make another episode. That's a
really intelligent way place to land
because what they will do is woo you
with their enthusiasm and then take you
down a rabbit hole where you will spend
years of your life and have nothing to
show.
>> Well, this is one of the reasons I want
to talk to like Michael's a very smart
guy. You've been very successful.
>> I've gone down the rabbit hole
knowing that wasn't didn't have a whole
lot else better to do at the time. It's
like between books. It's a pallet
cleanser. You don't have a between books
period. You you know Yeah. I don't have
that. I don't have a I don't have the
machine you have. You've got an assembly
line going
>> and it's a compounding asset. I mean,
this is the craziest craziest thing
about podcasting and like a giant amount
of why this has worked for us is we do a
lot of work that looks a lot like the
research and the writing of a book. But
when we make our book and we release it
to the world, people click subscribe.
And so when we release the next one,
those same people go listen. Like it's
almost guaranteed.
>> We're always growing our base.
podcasting, being an author,
there's loose compounding elements to
it, but there's not a like literal
>> not when I got into the business of
writing books, I thought there was going
to I thought about this a little bit and
I So, you're right. It's
>> But you've probably done it better than
>> You're one of the few people who
probably does have a brand.
>> I thought I'm going to move around
America to the various arenas of
ambition. Wall Street, Silicon Valley,
Washington, movie business, sports, the
various things. and I'll naturally
attract the audience that is interested
in that arena.
>> Y
>> and then I'll drag them along to the
others
>> and it hasn't really happened that way
even for you.
>> Not really. Not really. Uh the books the
books have a kind of
>> market and it's a big market bigish
market but it doesn't I see no evidence
that I'm dragging people along with me.
I feel like each each book feels like
another startup and that I've got to go
out and make it happen almost as if I've
not written one. Now that's
>> moneyball audience is not necessarily
fifth risk.
>> Exactly. And that the audiences end up
just being different. So it's just the
way it is. But that's not true.
>> That's not true. So every time if you
were to take time off to go do something
in Hollywood, you'd be abandoning this
glorious network. The opportunity cost
is so high of spending a month not
making an acquired episode because when
we publish an episode of acquired the
base does come with us not all of it but
like I you know we make epic systems
about healthcare and all the people who
listen to LVMH are now learning how
doctor's office it works right
>> so podcasts are unique in that it does
have that true subscriber base but
unlike anything else where you click
subscribe there's not an algorithmic
platform that disintermediates
I mean, you think YouTube or uh Twitter
or any of these when someone clicks
follow or subscribe, they're like, it's
like signal in the algorithm, but it's
not
>> guaranteed, but like you subscribe in
Apple Podcast or Spotify and those
people are actually subscribed and
they're going to get the next episode,
>> right? And they learn to trust you.
>> Yeah.
>> They learn to trust you that if you're
interested, they'll be interested. That
what in fact what they're buying into is
not the subject, but your interest in
the subject.
>> Yes. And I am terrified of betraying
that trust. Like anytime we make an
episode, I think of it as a churn
opportunity. If we put this in the feed,
if we don't live up to the expectations
that our listeners have, we will burn
them and they will leave us forever.
>> In the why does acquired work uh
framework, there's there's a strong
element of terror of why it works. Like
we're we're we are constantly terrified
every time we make an episode.
>> Every minute is a turn opportunity.
>> Are we letting are we letting people
down?
>> All right, listeners. Now is a great
time to thank our presenting partner JP
Morgan Payments. And we want to tell you
about something pretty cool that we just
did with them last week, which was a big
live show in Las Vegas together.
Acquired residency in Las Vegas, baby.
[laughter]
No, no, no, no. But what we did do is we
took the stage at the beautiful Venetian
Theater at AWS reinvent. We did four
really just incredible interviews with
the CEOs of Netflix, Perplexity, AWS,
and JP Morgan Payments. And I will say,
Ben, it was extra special in retrospect.
We were talking with Greg Peters, the
coco of Netflix, and asking him how
Netflix is reshaping Hollywood just a
few hours before they announced the
Warner Brothers acquisition. Uh, he has
a pretty good poker face given that we
were, you know, in Vegas and all that.
>> Yeah, that he does. Also very funny to
interview Matt Garmin from AWS at his
own event. And I will say one of the
most interesting conversations was with
Max Newer, the global co-head of JP
Morgan Payments. We dug into this
question that I've always wondered
about. How did the leading global bank
also come to own this technology
business that does $18 billion a year in
annual revenue on its own separate from
the rest of JP Morgan?
>> Yeah, it's wild. If JP Morgan Payments
were a standalone company, it would very
likely be in the Fortune 500, but it's
also part of JP Morgan.
>> Max also told us about JPMCoin,
developed by Kexus by JP Morgan, and how
it's helped the bank and even Jamie
evolved their thinking on how blockchain
technology is transforming financial
infrastructure.
>> Overall, it was a great week. We hung
out at JP Morgan's booth on the show
floor and got to see their developer
portal being demoed live in action to
customers, too.
>> Yep. So, if you want to learn more about
these innovations in payments and how JP
Morgan can help power your business,
head on over to jpmorggan.com/acquired.
>> Are you more terrified than you were 2
years ago?
>> Yes. So, you're growing the terror is
growing.
>> The terror is growing.
>> At some point, it's not going to be a
good thing.
>> I mean, [laughter] it's good to be a
little on edge,
>> but you don't want to get yourself in a
situation where you feel like you do the
same thing over and over again because
eventually it will get old. We'll come
back to this is we're going to get to
the bull and the bear case at the end.
>> Okay. [laughter] But but but but it's
it's this is so back to your the lesson
that you gleaned from Munger and and
Buffett. It's okay to have a two hard
pile and you said and the two hard pile
is like doing things in Hollywood. But I
when I asked the question, did you ever
run across this? Have you run across
this? Have you ever had a subject where
you thought ah this is just too hard to
do?
>> Yeah.
>> Oh yeah.
>> What would be an example of that?
>> We got pretty far down the line on doing
an episode on the Fed.
>> Yeah. and walked away from it.
>> Yep.
>> Uh
>> so you walked away from it.
>> Yeah. We might come back, but it's been
quite
>> There'll be a moment to come back to it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm glad we
didn't do it.
Although it's going to violate your rule
about doing newsy things.
>> We always try and find things must be
timelessness is like a must. M must
everything we do must be timeless. The
company we're covering
>> nothing's timeless. So what do you mean
by that? It must be that like if you
listen to this an episode that we make
five years after we made it, it's 80% as
relevant. Uh it's still it it will still
be an important institution in the
world,
>> right?
>> But like a CNBC article is worth 2% of
its original value within a month,
>> right?
>> And we want to be worth 80% of our
original value 5 years from now on piece
of content.
>> So So does that mean you're picking
institutions that you think will
survive?
>> Yes.
>> Yes. But okay, so that's like baseline
such a volatile you're so much of your
stuff is tech and finance where there's
so much churn.
>> Well, yes,
>> this didn't used to be true. You look at
anything pre201
uh we we had not yet discovered this
principle.
>> But our real bangers are timeless and
timely.
>> Doing Google this year was timeless and
timely,
>> right?
>> Having that, however you do it that
you're getting to something that I try
to get to when I'm picking subjects, but
you're doing it in a slightly different
way. Um, what I like what what gets my
when my socks start to go up and down
about a subject is when I'm really
interested in it and nobody else is that
that there isn't that there aren't
people it's not hot and I found with I
think it's true of basically all my
books couple maybe a couple exceptions
but a lot of the books that if I'm at a
dinner party and someone asks me what
I'm what are you working on and after
about 60 seconds I can see their eyes
glaz
like why is he interested in that? You
know, it's just not registering with
them in any way.
>> And I've learned just to not even talk
about it cuz it kills my interest to
watch it kill their interest. But I know
why I'm interested and why it's
important and I'm not I'm not relying on
the world telling me it's important. Uh
that that's a really good sign. This is
a difference between what you do and
what we do because I feel like when I
think through all your books, they're
almost always a story of obscurity
>> that once it becomes a Michael Lewis
book,
>> then it becomes a well-known phenomena,
Moneyball, like you are discovering
these things that kind of nobody's
talking about. Whereas when we do
something like Trader Joe's, someone
says, "What are you working on?" And
we're like, "Trader Joe's." They're
like, "I love Trader Joe's." [laughter]
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> So that is a difference. Your subjects
are not obscure,
>> right? They're the most corporations,
right?
>> People love it,
>> but they don't really understand
a secret in hiding in plain sight. Like
people didn't understand Trader Joe's or
people didn't understand Google. We
thought when we
>> There's three things that make a great
acquired episode. One, there's a
compelling hero protagonist that t that
takes a hero's journey where we're going
from obscurity to ubiquity. How it
starts is this thing that nobody cares
about and then it becomes the most
important thing in the world. Two is
there's a secret hiding in plain sight.
Like Costco, I think when the ordinary
consumer sees Costco, they're like, "Oh,
I love Costco." But when someone who's
listen to an the acquired episode on
Costco thinks about Costco, they see
like all the gears turning of the
machine. Like we there there has to be
some way that we can expose something.
And then our third criteria is it has to
be important in the world. And I think
that's something we picked up later. I
mean, we used to do these like little
$10 million acquisitions. And now when
we're gonna go spend two months of our
life researching and making that like
the acquired episode, it has to be
something worthy of the acquired stage.
When did that happen? So I'm a little
unclear you again getting back to this
first episode you did and where you are
now and the difference between them.
What sort of compelled you or propelled
you into the current form of acquired?
the decision to make it a business and
the decision to actually live off of
what you were what you earned from your
podcast. So, it had to work
commercially. So, then you started to
make these adjustments. Is that
>> Yes and no. There's um you're on the
right track. I like the Bergkshire. Uh I
thought you were going to say
partnership as a lesson from it. So, we
did a series on Sequoia Capital, the
right venture firm.
>> Yep.
>> I went full-time on acquired in 2020.
Mhm.
>> 5 years in, Ben didn't go full-time
until January 24, right?
>> Correct.
>> End of 23, beginning of 24 when I went.
>> You remained equal partners.
>> Yes.
>> Oh, it it wasn't a business when we
started. It was just like I mean, we
didn't make money till our third year,
>> but those three years while you're
full-time and you were part-time. It was
an equal
>> equal.
>> Yes. David was uh never once raised the
issue. I'm depending on this for my
livelihood and it's my only thing, so I
should own more or get a greater share.
That never once came up.
>> That's great. It never crossed my mind.
>> There we go. That's an important point.
>> You're not you.
>> I guess I'm glossing over it because it
like it wouldn't even like it didn't
even cross my mind now. Like it's just
it's always been a has always been the
two of us,
>> right? Equally. That's it would be it
would be profane for it to be anything.
>> It would actually break it if we ever if
we ever started trying to figure out
like little carveouts or pieces of the
pie for well I did this therefore I
should get
>> it's true collaboration. You don't
recognize there's no boundary to where
you start and you
>> This is where I'm going with the story.
>> It's funny you bring up Sequoia because
it's actually benchmarky in that way.
>> Well, it's the quote. It's Leon's quote.
>> Okay.
>> So, uh end of 22, uh FTX happens. Uh
interest rates go up, you know, all the
uh podcast advertising market, you know,
falls off a cliff. Our revenue dropped
40%. So, we went from this wasn't a
business. I went full-time. We made it a
business. It worked amazingly well
>> from 20 to 22.
>> From 20 to 21 into 22,
>> right?
>> And then our revenue dropped 40%. Right.
>> Overnight. [laughter]
And that was the moment when we changed
everything. And uh
>> Oh.
>> So, how many episodes are you making in
2021?
>> A lot.
>> Oh, I see. Okay. And is it But it's not
no longer just corporate acquisitions.
>> We started broadening with the Tesla
episode in like 2019,
maybe 18.
>> And why did you broaden? Uh it was
David's idea and he said I have this
thesis that the audience doesn't listen
to us because they want to hear if a
tech acquisition worked or not. They
want to hear the story and strategy of
the most important technology companies.
>> There you go. So you you you were you
kind of foul hooked the listen the your
your audience. Yes.
>> They they were listening.
>> What's a foul hook?
>> You when you go fishing and the fish you
catch the fish by the belly rather than
the mouth. It's [laughter] like the hook
gets the hook gets in the some weird
way. Yes. You didn't actually catch the
fish in the in an honest way.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> But yeah, we would get all these, you
know, emails every time we'd meet people
and they'd talk about the show be like,
I love the story. Like you guys are just
gifted storytellers. That's what we'd
hear over and over and over again. And
like eventually we're like, well, we
should believe that. So, can I I'm gonna
at that moment I'm going to interject
what I noticed because because we're
that in that first episode
you were so unsure of yourselves
that there is you were so choked both of
you and you were you have a background
in theater. You were a kid.
>> So, you did not come across as people
who had been on stage.
>> You you it was there was a it was it was
kind of an effectless performance. It
was flat. There's a flatness to it. You
were you you were afraid to whether you
knew it or not re exhibit a lot of
emotion. You didn't realize that one of
your secret sauces is emotion. It's the
way you respond to each other when
you're presenting material is teaching
the a is helping the audience understand
how they should feel about it. that
you're giving them sometimes very dry
facts like I don't know their revenues
doubled every year for 100 years
straight and and and [laughter] the
audience may not know that that's
something that that's an incredible
thing
>> right
>> and the way you respond even
sophisticated listeners are helped oh
pay attention now this was a that's an
important thing I should I should get
excited about that
>> we used to share our research such that
we were doing research in the early days
I think we only had a single Google doc
that we [clears throat]
>> were dumping everything into the same
shared document.
>> We were on this. So by the time we would
actually go to record the episode
Yeah. There's no surprise.
>> There's no disagreement.
>> You can't pretend to be surprised.
>> We can't or you would be pretending to
be surprised. Neither of us are good
actors.
>> I don't When did we [laughter]
we did a little This is really
important. So you added an
improvisational component.
>> Yes.
>> There's another way of putting that.
You're added risk.
>> You're taking risks when you don't know
what's going to happen when you come on.
>> 100% agree. Every episode now going into
recording day feels like a high wire act
because we haven't fully scripted it
out. I'm like I think this is going to
come together. But like we had to add
this thing called a production meeting
about 6 months ago. One week before
recording we are required to get
together and share agree on an episode
structure but not share any details
>> because we got so into this like
improvisation thing that some of our
episodes would sort of end and you're
like
>> that had no flow to it. Like you guys
had two different ideas.
>> You're not taking risk if it doesn't
work sometimes. Right. But it's the
difference between
>> I mean, do you know how your heart sinks
when someone gets up at a podium with a
script with a with a speech and they're
going to read their speech.
>> The audience is waiting for you to get
through this thing because they know
nothing's going to happen. Like
whatever's on that page, that's what's
going to happen.
>> Pre-announcing the score of the Super
Bowl.
>> It's exactly right. And that if you get
up and you just start talking, the
audience also knows, oh my god, this
could be a disaster. This could they
don't know where it's going. Just having
just some of that has a huge effect on
the way the audience responds to the
performance. And so that that's that is
not in the beginning.
>> Do you remember when we started doing
that?
>> Well, I I think in the first 10
episodes, first five episodes, we got
feedback saying you guys need to
disagree more. But I don't think we
quite realized that we should reveal
surprises for each other until 5 years
ago, four years ago.
>> But at some point we made it a you know
an unwritten rule of like we have
separate documents we prepare
>> separately.
>> We try to do like that was that was 5
years ago you say. So the so we start
with the corporate acquisitions in 2015
and you two knowing everything that
you're going to say when you get on
basically and it's short and it's 40
minutes.
>> Yeah. So,
>> and we're not confident. What you're
hearing, too, is like I'm supposed to be
doing financial analysis as someone
who's never been taught how to read a
financial statement, right? And so,
you're also hearing a little bit of like
>> imposttor syndrome.
>> I'm trying I can't get overenthusiastic
because I'm afraid David's going to
catch me and be like, you don't know
what you're talking about.
>> Okay. So, plus there's so there's an
uncertainty about your own abilities.
>> All right. So, so first thing that
happens is you move off the corporate
acquisitions.
>> We went from acquisitions to IPOs,
>> right? which was unbelievable timing in
2017 18 when Uber, Pinterest, Slack,
yeah, uh the eight IPOs in a row of tech
companies that everyone had been
following and then it it went really for
two years and kind of culminated at the
end of 2020 with Door Dash and Airbnb,
which we recorded and released one day
apart cuz we wanted to do that today on
IPO day.
>> Yeah. So, but once again, you're
constraining yourself unnecessarily.
Yeah. Exactly. that that eventually you
get to we're just going to do stories,
big success stories basically.
>> So it was acquisitions, IPOs,
uh then it was broad histories and
strategies of tech companies and then
broad histories and strategies of
companies period
>> and people
>> and people with Taylor Swift [laughter]
we frame them as companies in a funny
way. You're you're still constraining
yourself. You feel like you need this
frame
>> and you actually you're not really
living in a frame anymore.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, but constraints are good. Like
format, forcing yourself.
>> Sure. But you should, but at some point
you're going to wake up and say, you
know, we should be doing more biography.
We should be doing more people. And if
that person is not, you know, is not
naturally a huge corporation. You may
still I have a feeling there's more
there's there's more there's an
evolution to come that you're not just
saying you haven't reached like the end
point of this. So, at what point do you
start to feel confident like we know
what we're doing?
>> Well, when the crash, you know, crash
when when uh the reset happened in 2022,
2023,
>> so pretty recently,
>> crypto bubble, tech stocks plummet,
podcasting,
>> advertising budgets kind of dry up, end
of 2022.
>> Ben and I looked at each other and it
was like it it wasn't even like really a
conversation. We just knew what we had
to do. We watched a lot of other people
>> go for
easy secure money now
>> try and keep the music playing
>> right
>> and we was we were just like party's
over we need to get to work we need to
focus on only what is enduring and like
make great great great work and stop
doing everything else like up to that
point we we were we used to do these
things called specials. We would just do
you know not totally random but
essentially random kind of interviews
and undifferiated topics and we said you
we need to start making stuff that is
only out of one only we can do will only
be great. We need to stop doing
everything else
>> and we did it on the commercial side
too. We said, "Let's go cut deals with
our favorite partners,
>> most of our sponsors." Yeah.
>> And try to just figure out when we come
out the other side of this that we have
like the best companies to work with
commercially as well as the most durable
stories and brands associated with us
because of the editorial side of the
house.
>> The JP Morgans of the world. Did they
join before you proved that this new way
of doing
>> No, we did a year. 2023 was the first
year.
>> And what were the What were those
episodes?
>> That was LVMH. That was the NFL. Okay.
>> Uh that was Porsche. That was that was
the beginning of what we really
>> Yeah. And I think that's when we started
to build the confidence of like, oh, we
can do something that
>> Isn't it interesting that you grabbed
this kind of commercial attention only
after you went really long?
>> Yes. And so then JP Morgan came in in
the January 24. So we had did the year
of kind of building this out.
>> You're right. It was only after we had
sort of leaned into acquired as a brand
about durability about compounding over
decades and you know centuries and I
don't think I appreciated that as a
person uh in the early days of acquire
and it certainly wasn't what the show
was about.
>> Yeah.
>> Anyway, so I we I got us a little off
track. Your lesson number three was
Bergkshire Hathaway and don't be afraid
to have a two hard pile which pick
another
>> Okay. Then my frame for all this story
was was Sequoa. So this story is very
different than than Sequoia, but uh we
interviewed Doug Leone uh who was you
know one of the the I guess two stores
ago of of Sequoia and he told us that
after the dot crash for the the Sequoia
fund that was the the dot bubble fund
>> every other venture firm out there after
the bubble popped were taking mulligan
funds. They went to their LPs and they
said, you know, there's nothing we can
do on this one. We're going to be more
disciplined next time. We said,
absolutely not. We will never lose money
for our investors ever. We will do
everything we can possibly do to make
this fund in the black. And he said the
best I think the best line anyone's ever
said on acquired. He said, "We looked at
each other and you could burn cigarettes
on our arms and we wouldn't flinch."
[laughter] And they spent the next like
five years. They didn't raise another
fund. They just [clears throat] like
went to work with the portfolio and like
>> they stopped taking fees for a while.
>> Stopped taking fees. Yeah. And and and
got it back and it ended up being a you
know a positive returning fund.
>> This is how you get a reputation.
>> Exactly.
>> And and that was that moment for us
>> and easy to lose one too. And so I mean
it's so they they were really sensitive
to reputation.
>> Yeah. Yeah. We had studied enough
businesses by that point where we saw
what led to durability and I think we
already were awake to the idea that all
that matters is the late years of
compounding. Like in any given year you
look at a mag seven company and their
profits from the last year are greater
than the first 20 years combined or
whatever. And I think realizing that
being around and being respected on the
other side of this, you know, economic
chasm is like the key to everything. We
who cares about making money this year?
It's about 5 10 20 years from now and we
have to like have the brand that people
want to be a part of then,
>> right? But it but you don't know that
you are a mag seven [laughter] podcast.
>> It's kind of ridiculous to compare
when you when you make this decision.
You don't know that there's going to be
great riches 10 years out or 5 years out
or three years out.
>> Yeah.
>> But really like I think we were just we
both so believe it was like the burn
cigarettes on our arm. Like I think we
just both so believed that that was the
right thing to do.
>> Something has happened. Yeah. So
something had happened up before that
and you had figured out how to do this.
You'd figured out how to study a
business
>> in a way that was really interesting.
The first episode's not that
interesting. Yeah. There's just not that
much I didn't know. Hadn't thought of.
Yeah,
>> you know, whatever
and it's 30 minutes or whatever it is
there now in that first episode. I think
there are more ads than there are you
all you YouTube speaking [laughter] but
but
>> and now we pride ourselves on having the
lowest entire industry. So let's just
let's pause here before we get to number
four.
>> How do you study a business? Like what
have you learned about how to study a
business that's different from when you
started out? explain to the audience
what you do to prepare to tell what you
do to learn about a business.
>> Great.
>> I read everything ever about them.
>> So, Yep. You do what I do.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. You go whatever's out there,
>> right?
>> Right. AI. That's just the AI part of
it.
>> Who's who started with canonical who's
done great canonical work in the past
and then what ideas do you have from
reading the previous canonical work?
>> And you know, you you then say like, I
wonder if I can find this old YouTube
video. And then those YouTube videos
mention something else. And the the
spiderweb always starts with the
pre-existing canonical.
>> And at what point do you pick up the
phone and start calling people who maybe
have information that isn't on the
worldwide web?
>> Zero ever until about 2023. And now that
is the most important way that we
probably about 50% for me at least about
50% of the way through the like start to
get your arms around then start calling.
>> Right? You don't call uninformed. You
call knowing as much as there is to know
and then you start picking the brains of
people who might know more and have not
said.
>> There's like the obvious people to talk
to like you know for Google we talked to
you know Sudar Deis are like you know
like obvious then there's like the less
slightly less
>> obvious you just say that so casually
who gets to pick up the phone part of
the compounding effect
>> and talk to the CEO of Google about
Google I mean nobody.
>> We're in a scale economy.
>> We're in a compounding business right?
So, the fact that you when do you first
realize that you can pick up the phone?
>> That's a good question.
>> And call Tim who you know that you have
you're [laughter] on this first name
basis with all these people. When does
that
>> uh I think it was our Microsoft series
when we talked to to Steve to
>> Steve. Here we go. Steve [laughter]
>> cast acquired guest.
>> Cast acquired guest. Steve I love name
dropping in your world [laughter] is so
different from the name dropping in like
Hollywood. None of your names mean
anything in all, but but they mean
everything here. [laughter]
>> And the and the arenas [clears throat]
are so funny because like these people
aren't most of them aren't famous and
they're a thousand to 10,000 times
wealthier than these these Hollywood
stars. This different yard.
>> Well, what's funny with Microsoft? So,
we had some access because Ben used to
work at Microsoft uh before
>> which got us zero access.
>> Well, no, no, but you knew some people
like here's in my mind what sort of
happened with this as I'm trying to
think about how to answer Michael's
question. Um because we had started in
Seattle and you still live in Seattle
and you had worked at Microsoft when we
started our Microsoft journey.
>> We knew some people.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's true.
>> We like well let's see if we can talk to
Steve and so then we we talked to Steve
and we got his you know perspective on
things and it completely changed.
>> Was that a cold email?
>> I think it was.
>> Is that the first time you do that?
>> First time we reached that high.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. And you know what? This is where
reputation matters. Steve didn't get
back to us for a day and then we heard
back and he said, "I don't listen to
podcasts. I haven't listened to your
podcasts, but I talked to some people
that I trust and they say, "You're
great."
>> Yeah.
>> So, let's hop on a call. And we wouldn't
have gotten the response back if
>> And he gave us probably 3 hours, four
hours in research for
>> He did. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And you learned a lot.
>> Yeah. This before we even interviewed
him. That was later, but uh just just in
research.
>> I see.
>> And we learned a lot. Did you all have a
moment where you thought, "Oh my god,
let's keep doing that. That works."
>> Yes. Well, yeah. So, then we were like,
"That worked great."
>> It kind of worked with Jensen, too. So,
originally when we had the idea in 2021
to do Nvidia, we thought we were like an
interview show, then we thought the
interviews would be better than our core
storytelling episodes cuz we hadn't
discovered that the Ben & David
storytelling is our NF1 product. It is
the thing that we uniquely can do that
no one else can do. And we thought
getting these big gets would be the key
to success. Uh, which is funny because
usually they underperform our standard
format. And so in 2021, we emailed
Nvidia through the warmest connection we
could find and said, "Can we interview?"
>> We're planning to cover the company. Can
we interview Jetson?
>> And they said, they gave us a nice party
line back. [laughter] He's very busy.
And then in 2022, we did our NVIDIA part
one. We did our standard research
process and I think we did our part two.
We did part two
>> and then we got a note from Nvidia
saying Jensen has listened and wants to
know who your inside sources are because
it's the most correct telling of
Nvidia's story ever. And we were like oh
this was all just public information and
if you're good at spidering the internet
and just like digesting it and thinking
about why he would have said something
at this point in time to this audience
in these various random university talks
and stuff. You can kind of piece
together the story and so that
>> it's still flying by radar a bit. Oh
yeah, we were totally flying by radar.
Yeah. Yeah.
>> But that landed us, they were like uh
that started the relationship and
eventually
>> then they're like, "All right, who wants
to meet you?" And then
>> do you want to do an interview and
follow up on your episodes?
>> But that but you did an interview
episode with him, but it doesn't do as
well as your own Nvidia episode.
>> That one may have been like at some
particular peak of Nvidia buzziness. So
it was our probably our then largest
episode.
>> Well, here's what happens with
interviews.
>> Makes it they [clears throat]
spike faster.
>> Yeah. and then they go and those
listeners don't retain the way that
>> whereas if you look at our um Costco
episode which is now two and a half
years old or um LVMH or MEZ Rolex like
they just they just keep going they just
I mean I'm sure your books are like this
like they just they just keep going.
>> Yeah.
>> Every time I bring out a new book it has
the same effect on the old books that a
new podcast has on old podcast. Yeah. It
sells all the backlist. So that so yes.
>> All right. So um I was asking you how
you studied a business and you told me
you you read everything there is you so
and you must find when you go and read
everything there is
>> you're very polite and you're very
generous about citing your sources and
all that but you must find
>> my wife is an academic my wife has a PhD
she was trained as an academic and she
was like you guys got to site your
sources like what are you doing like
>> oh well yeah but it's also but you you
are you ever surprised by the weakness
of the source material.
>> Yeah.
>> Yes.
>> In fact, literally today,
>> we are no longer surprised, but
>> we got an email from a company that we
recently covered saying, you said a a
factually incorrect story in the episode
and we know the book that you got it
from because it was factually incorrect
in that book. We told the author that it
was factually incorrect and it went out
anyway, right?
>> And now you're repeating the incorrect
story. And you know, we have now an
Arata section where we publish our email
list. And I bet you're mainly correcting
other people's errors that you just
repeated.
>> I mean, sometimes there are sometimes
there are.
>> Yeah.
>> Sometimes we make a financial
calculation error or something like
that, but
>> right. So, we read all source material
and then and then we start to make phone
calls in 2023 and now the phone calls
are more are are have become extremely
important and you're making
>> extremely 25 of them.
>> Google is 40 probably across.
>> And do you find that when you're
reaching out on by phone to all these
people that that they always want to
talk to you or no? Sometimes it makes.
>> Yeah.
>> But usually when you approach it with a
spirit of
>> I'm just trying to understand its own
background.
>> Yes. We are going to tell a narrative
here. Our biggest question to you is
what is most misunderstood
>> and what incorrect stories are out there
where we can set the record straight.
>> And you get lots of great information
after that. [laughter] It's a very good
way to go about it.
>> It's I do the same thing when I'm
researching something. I I don't know
what the story is for the longest time
and I'm holding everything very loosely
and all the almost all the relationships
I have with people I'm interviewing is
hey this is all in background I just
want to try to understand this can I hop
on a call with you and they're usually
pretty open to it and like I just want
to be educated kind of thing and it's a
great way to say like what's the stupid
thing people say because everybody has
an opinion
>> but it's not a trick like this isn't
here's one cool trick to get people to
talk to you what I think you mean it
earnestly and we mean it earnestly of I
want to make something
>> that's good.
>> Everybody has different beliefs about
the truth, but I want to I want to make
the story that most correctly
approximates the average truth that
[laughter] exists from all these
different truthy sources.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I don't think of it quite that
way. I But I do think it's like I want
to give something that's good and pure
and true and is like is like the thing
that will once it's said there's nothing
else to say. It's like done.
>> Yeah. I got to imagine for your subjects
and I think a big part of us too is like
there's the truthy aspect which is very
very important but there's also the like
this is going to be great like this is
going to be really fun this is going to
be entertaining to read and people are
going to consume it that's I think a
huge motivation for our sources
>> have you so when you're working on one
of these episodes
do you are you aware of how much fun
you're having learning and do you ever
have you ever shut something down just
because oh this isn't that much fun the
Fed. Maybe
>> that's kind of why we killed the Fed. We
we've definitely killed other episodes.
>> If you can find fun in the Fed, man, you
are [laughter] you are doing you're
you're you can find fun.
>> You were doing Yeah.
>> We can generate all that enthusiasm for
each other's insights about the Fed.
>> We killed Bell Labs cuz we couldn't find
a throughine. There were so many
different stories, so many different
characters.
>> I know. We might come back to it.
>> Bell Labs. I that would that's one that
if I saw it, I said, "Yes, I want to
listen to that."
>> It feels like a Michael Lewis book
>> there. You could kind of do it as the
history of the transistor, but then you
miss all these other things like radar
and um
>> yeah, there's so much stuff that came
out of
>> Did you do Xerox Park?
>> No.
>> No. No. But yeah,
>> it's another one,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> I guess Google still has this spirit
where they're doing lots of stuff that
maybe you can't identify instantly.
Yeah. The payoff that's right around the
corner. This kind of like let's just
fiddle around, see what we find stuff. I
mean,
>> corporate America, I think, just
generally does less of that than it used
to do a long time ago.
>> Uh, but the big tech No, I'm trying to
think that's an interesting.
>> So, uh, I'm stealing this idea from our
friend Hamilton Helmer, but he brought
up this idea in conversation with us
that, um, there is a positive benefit to
monopolies because they create the cash
flows that fund these sorts of
boondoggle basic research. And
a lot of the most important Yeah.
>> technologies that move society forward,
>> you need some waste
>> come out of these
>> you need fat.
>> Yes. And like boy does Google have that.
I mean you just their last quarter was
their first hundred billion dollar
quarter ever.
>> Astonishing.
>> I know.
>> And that's how they fund you know the
next Gemini.
>> Right. Right. And Whimo and Yeah.
>> So actually you just bring up your
friend Hamilton Helmer. Yes. who I had
never heard of until I listened to your
podcast and you do that thing of the
seven powers. Let's just briefly since
we're here how you study a business that
has been a useful analytical framework
for you whatever these seven powers are
and I'll never remember any of them but
that's why we say every network effects
and all that
>> [clears throat]
>> uh what is it about Hamilton
like where did you find him and why is
you making him so famous
>> there there's a lot of good frameworks
out there for analyzing business
strategy and this one just clicked I
just read it and I was like that is
actually the complete list
>> when Did you read it?
>> You found I think it was 2020.
>> Uh he was read that list. I read the
list and it was all gobbly hook to me.
[laughter] The there were these I mean
it didn't the words did not mean things
but you have to know what they mean.
>> If I asked you in plain English, can you
brainstorm all the ways in which a
uh industry-leading company gets away
with being more profitable than their
competitor and gets to keep being more
profitable.
>> That's the list you would come up with.
You might find
>> what creates the moat.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> Right. But so so why did you decide you
even needed that framework?
>> We
>> Oh, it goes hand in hand with the
durability.
>> If you're trying to study why is a
business durable, it the cause is the
power.
>> We'd always been searching for a way to
land the plane on the episodes. Like we
tell this story and we finish the story,
but that unsatisfying like uh what's the
takeway? Yeah. And so we had all various
permutations of analysis at the end.
>> Buy or sell or hold, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah. You know, we did bull and
bear and grading and blah blah blah.
Once we shifted to like, hey, we're
studying these great companies, these
durable businesses, power felt like a a
really good part of that like so what,
right? Why?
>> For me, a critical critical part of
process, it goes back to writing a
senior thesis at Princeton. Everything
needs to pass through multiple cycles of
source material through my brain through
my fingers onto a keyboard and recycle
back through about three times. Yep.
>> Uh and and so like I don't use AI
note-taking. I do
>> write physical notes in hard copy books.
Like if I'm not doing that, uh I feel
like it's not going to work. Yeah.
>> His what do you do?
>> So I have exactly the same issue and I
discovered I wanted to be a writer
writing my senior thesis. had no
ambition to do it before then and then
all of a sudden I thought, "Oh my god, I
love this." And what I loved was just
that was the was the constant recycling
of the of the thought. And and so what I
do my the process I don't want to get
too far away from your podcast, but I'm
sitting with my notepad.
>> Yeah.
>> So this is a filter. Like if I'm talking
to you, it takes effort to put it down
on the page. I don't record anything
that I've filtered it. It's interesting
enough to me that it belongs on the
page. Then I go home and I write the
notes up quickly. Uh, and that's another
filter. If what's on the page interests
me enough to put it in in in a word
document, then I've got it's filtered
again. Yeah.
>> Um, and I and I keep those notes while
I'm working on a book and the file will
be 500 pages long by it, maybe longer by
the time and it's just stuff
>> and then I start thinking about how do
you frame the story? What is this story?
Um, but it's that's months usually down
the road like and there are times when I
get into something and I am months into
it and I realize there's nothing here
with Sam Begmanf Freed I was a year into
it and I did not know what I was going
to do with it until it blew up and THEN
I THOUGHT OH MY GOD I I [laughter] HAD
THE story
>> when it been sitting there for a year
watching
>> Do you think you would have not
published the book if it hadn't
>> Oh no I wouldn't
>> Wow, you would have killed the book.
>> Well, I might have found a way to do it.
I might have found a way to do it, but I
hadn't found a way to do it. And it was
always the same conversation with my
editor. It was, I just don't know where
this is going. I don't know what the end
is. When I don't know what the end is, I
don't know what the beginning is. And
it's that simple. And it wasn't that,
oh, I smelled fraud or anything like
that. It was just it didn't have shape
to it. It was just it was pickarest
experience after pickarest experience.
It was like Doni Hody, but the but the
first chapter over and over and over and
over. And so there was material there,
which is why I kept coming back. It was
fun. There were endless scenes. There
were, you know, but it was just like I
don't know.
>> Yeah. But scenes don't make a scenes
don't make a play.
>> They're necessary. They're necessary but
insufficient.
>> Yeah.
>> So, but the bigger point I hate to we I
don't want to be talking about me. We be
talking about you. But this proc you are
doing I s I smell this from your your
work.
>> You're doing a something that rhymes
what I with what I do. You are gathering
before you make judgments. You're open
to learning things. You're trying to be
the world's best student. You want
people to want to teach you. And uh and
then if you if people want to teach you,
they will teach you. And then you could
take what you learn and you could
present it in the way the best way you
can present it.
>> I basically take a note in two
scenarios. One is
oh I just figured out how that works and
that is so cool. Like when I learned how
a mechanical
>> master of the like this is such
[laughter] a cool thing,
>> it was like I we got excited.
>> This is in some ways irrelevant to the
business success of Rolex, but I it will
it will make my year to explain on air
how a mechanical watch works and how an
escapement
is a thing and
>> my excitement around the
>> greatest moments. Yeah, it is.
>> Or or or the Costco ballet or like Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, there's the I just figured out
how something worked and then there's
the I just made a connection and I it's
like I'll be on a run. I'll be listening
to an audio book. It'll be the third
audio book that I've listened to about a
certain subject and I'll I'll hear
something and think, "Oh,
that's why." And I'll stop and I'll
write my little Apple note. This
timestamp in this book, you know, just
realized why. I can't think of an
example right now. This happened. And
then later I go and I look it up in the
Kindle book and I figure out like how I
want to explain the connection that I
just learned on air. But it has to come
from the I have to like remember and
bottle up my excitement of learning it
in that moment to share that enthusiasm
with the listener.
>> Yeah. Yep. That's that's all very
familiar to me.
>> All right, listeners. Now is a great
time to tell you about a great friend of
the show, Work OS. And since we recorded
this episode in the garage where Google
started, we thought this would be a
fitting moment to talk about when a
startup exits their proverbial garage
phase and starts to become a real
business.
Garages were were a little more popular
back in the day with HP or Apple or in
the '90s with Google and Amazon all
founded in garages. Today though, it's
more likely an SF apartment or a coffee
shop or a hacker house. But you know the
key question remains what do you do
after you find product market fit and
when you start scaling?
>> One big answer is moving up market and
finding your first enterprise customers.
And the best way to do that is work OS.
Work OS makes it easy to add all the
things that enterprises require. Single
sign on skim permissions audit logs all
with simple drop-in APIs. It lets you
scale revenue bigger and faster earlier
in the life of your company or if you
already have some of this functionality
to just simplify your codebase.
>> As we've been saying all season, this is
even more important in the AI era. AI
products need deep access to sensitive
data to be impactful. So these security
features are just a price of admission
for enterprises.
>> You really don't want to be late to
this. We talked on our Google series
about even with how successful they are
today by initially ignoring the
enterprise, Google left the door open to
competitors for a while. Google Docs and
their original G Suite were so good. I
mean, amazing productivity apps on the
web, but they lacked enterprise features
for years, leaving the door open for
Microsoft to catch up and respond with
Office 365.
>> Yeah, it's funny. We were talking with
work OS founder Michael Grinich about
this and he was making an impassion
pitch to us that Google should have won
the entire web-based productivity market
given they were first and they had
better technology. Get your enterprise
story right early on. OpenAI, Anthropic,
Cursor, Perplexity, Sierra, Replet,
Verscell, hundreds of other AI startups
too. They all rely on work OS as their
enterprise ready O solution and you
should too. So if you're ready to get
started with just a few lines of code
for SAML, skim, arbback, SSO,
authorization, authentication, and
everything else to please IT admins and
their checklists, check out work OS.
It's the modern software platform to
make all this happen. That's works.com
and just tell them that Ben and David
sent you.
>> So give me a fourth example of a lesson
learned from an episode.
>> Uh this we learned I I feel like I
learned from Ben Thompson, which is
>> tell the audience who Ben Thompson is.
Ben Thompson is the author of Stratecy,
>> proprietor of
>> proprietor, founder of strategy. Uh
>> we did an episode on on him and and with
him a few years ago,
>> but his writing is sort of the thing
that we bonded over when we met.
>> He's a great strategy technology writer.
A the internet niches are way bigger
than you think they are. So if you think
you're writing about a niche topic,
the internet being a global community of
fourish billion people means that any
little niche, there might be six people
in your geography that care about it in
your local town, but there there's
millions of people online, right?
>> And the internet is your way to reach
them. So no matter how niche you are,
it's actually way way bigger. And the
correlary to that is in the media
business in podcasting
you can grow your audience and thus your
revenue and thus your importance in the
world. All outputs can scale completely
independently of your inputs. David and
I effectively do the same thing that we
did not 10 years ago but two years ago
to make an episode but the audience has
grown so much that like every output
from the business is dramatically
different even though all the inputs are
the same. And so we really like took to
heart the niche of smart people who care
about how these businesses work and why
the world is arranged in this way is
large and we don't have to scale our
operation to reach them. We just have to
keep making the highest quality stuff
and giving people reason to share it.
>> What is your operation? I mean we're in
here with a a a large group of large men
[laughter] and and and this is a bigger
operation but this isn't your normal
operation. What is your operation?
>> Uh, I have a basement studio. You know,
it's an office that we happen to have
some lights and a camera in.
>> I built a studio in my backyard. So,
that's the YouTube. You mentioned that
you send your stuff to an editor without
naming the editor.
>> His name is Steven.
>> Steven is part of what we do. [laughter]
>> Uh, he does. I'm not sure he'd want us
to share on air.
>> So, Stephen So, Ste So, the mysterious
Steven.
>> He's an independent contractor. We're
his only client.
>> And he works only for you.
>> He's And he's the best.
>> He's the best. So he's clearly good at
his
>> Stephen is as maniacal about
creating the best audio product
>> and video when we do it.
>> But we Yeah. No, we no assistance. No,
we we do everything.
>> You don't sell. You don't have ad sales.
We do all the
>> We love doing the businesses.
>> You do right.
>> We love We love doing the business
equally as much as we love making.
>> And I love the alignment. the business
and the content are equally important
and they're they're like married.
>> Yeah. It's funny you're preparing for
this like we're always tempted like to
just talk about the business because we
love the business as much as the show
but we never talk about the business.
>> So I want So let's just stop here for a
moment because I want to talk about this
first before we move on from Stephen. So
Stephen is in this rare position of
basically being the only person who
helps you create this thing.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> How different is the
>> We hired a wonderful production crew
because we wanted to have a great video
for for today.
>> Right. So, how different is what you
give what comes out of
>> Stephen from what you give him?
>> Eight, nine hours of raw audio with
dozens of retakes, sometimes hundreds of
retakes.
>> We produce each other as we go.
>> Hundreds of retakes.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. David will say a paragraph and
I'll be like,
>> "Wait, wait. I want to do that in an
acquired tone."
>> Wow, that's amazing. Hundreds of
[laughter] hundreds of retakes. You do
hund That's incredible. Well, I would
have guessed like if you just asked me
five hundreds.
>> You sound You sound like a millennial.
[laughter]
>> I just want to be appropriately amazed.
>> The number of hundreds. You can't do
hundreds of
>> literalies that we cut.
>> We cut literally all the time.
>> Literally. Totally. But the retakes
though are a different thing. The
retakes are
>> We didn't say that clearly enough. We
didn't land the point.
>> I made a point where I wasn't paying
enough attention to what David was
saying cuz I was like looking over at my
notes and then I make the same point and
he's like, "Oh, I think you missed it. I
just said that. Can you just say the
last
>> Oh, I see.
>> thing as an uh and then we'll move on.
>> Or I explain something in twice the
amount of time and David's like getting
bored. And he's like, that was a real
monologue. I think we got to keep the
story moving. And I'm like, I agree. Uh
when I wrote it in my notes, I was
really excited about it, but now that
we're in the moment, I can feel that
it's slowing down the energy. So, let me
take two minutes. let me retype some
stuff and let me figure out if there's a
condensed way to say that so that it can
flow seamlessly in the energy of the
story.
>> Right.
>> But that is all in the eight nine hours.
>> So and so he's cutting it in half.
>> Yeah.
>> And when he come when he when it comes
back to you from him.
>> So he be he he turns eight nine hours of
that into an intelligible
>> into like five is probably appropriate
to call it like release candidate one to
use like a software analogy. Right.
>> And then we make 5 to 800 additional
cuts to cut another hour off of it. And
that stuff we're
>> Are you doing it on the page? You doing
it on the page.
>> Uh we use a a tool called Descript. Uh
which we we sort of use it. Not
>> You're not listening to it. You're
reading.
>> We are listening to it and we are
watching. Yeah. Yeah. Watching.
>> And how long does that take?
>> Days.
>> Three days.
>> Three days to edit.
>> Yeah.
>> Cuz we usually do We usually do two
cycles of that.
>> And then do you send it back to him
after you've done that? Yeah.
>> And then we do it again. and you do it
again.
>> I listen at 1x and you have to like feel
where you get bored or feel where you're
just like I don't care. Like you have to
get so sick of the material where you're
just like cutting bone.
>> You You're the hero on this. I can't
bring myself to do it. I listen on on
two and a halfx just it's it's you are
the hero for doing
>> you don't actually listen it to it at
normal speed.
>> Ah it's so like Ben really jumps on the
grenade for this
>> almost always. You can cut the beginning
of almost everything you that that
there's always throat clear.
Yeah. Wind up. You don't need it. You
just go right to it. And uh and then
once I start to feel it get taught, I
just love it. I love it. I love I like I
like make the hardest thing is getting
the stuff out in the first place. And
then once it's once it's out on the
page, then you could start ah each time
it gets better. I find there's no
despair associated with it. And there's
stuff in the original draft that is a
remnant of the point you thought you
were going to make and by the time you
get to the end you're like that's
actually not the the important thing
here. I no longer need that whole setup
or that that
>> or it's in there in all kinds of other
ways.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. But it's important that you had
the idea, but it's buried in the in the
story some which way.
>> Yeah.
>> David will often highlight something and
go at Ben okay to cut belaboring.
>> So the minute you're there, you know
it's got to be cut.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Mostly, right? Our default
is always cut. Always cut. Yeah. And so
you get 5 hours down to whatever it is.
Three and a half. Four.
>> We we three and a half is the sweet.
>> And how do you know when you're done?
>> We Yeah.
>> So deadines.
You're never really done. I would love
one more edit.
>> We'd always There's always more. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
>> We have both the gift and the curse of
deadline and next episode coming.
Whereas like you you have a infinite
timeline, right?
>> No, no, no. I have a I I mean I owe a
book on June the 1st that will come out
September the 29th that I will start
writing on January the 5th and I will
write it in five chunks and each chunk
will be delivered at the end of the
month and I won't be able to go back.
>> Okay. Wait wait wait wait. What happens
if you get to June and you're like I'm
not I'm not uh
>> can't can't
>> Okay. So it's it's a hard dead. It's a
drop dead.
>> Yeah. But I I always find I once I
establish that deadline which is a
reasonable deadline because I've done
all spent a year doing the work. I have
the material. By the way, it's very
polite of you to ask me questions about
myself. [laughter]
No, it's like No, but but but that that
it's
>> somehow if you take your deadlines
seriously, that's the key. You take the
deadlines deadly seriously and you just
refuse to violate them. Um then you're
serious when you establish them and you
your mind just finishes when it needs to
finish. I I and I'm always like a couple
of days ahead of it.
>> Yeah. So, I would talk a little bit
about the business side because this is
something that I certainly don't know
anything about in in your lives, but you
turn this into a very lucrative
franchise and you go out and you and and
unlike most podcasts, you're not you're
not subcontracting this the the sale of
ads to some other company and you're not
just promiscuous in who you have as
advertisers. So, you have two or three,
four, whatever it is, major advertisers
you every season and um and some
stability there.
when you go, walk me through, pretend
Michael Lewis, Inc. is your target that
you want me to be a like the anchor
tenant [laughter]
in your building and you're coming in to
tell me why I should do this. Give give
me a give me a sense of it with that.
>> I'll let David give you the sales pitch.
The philosophy of the whole thing comes
from we want to create a durable
business on our side and a great
listener experience on the listener
side. And I always feel as a listener so
disrespected when there is this content
of [clears throat] the podcast that is
diamond quality
>> and then they are running scratch
McDonald's ads in the middle
>> usually not read by the host usually
with some jingle playing underneath.
>> It bothers the hell out of me too and I
haven't been able to do anything about
it. I I agree. I it and I it it's it's
the biggest complaint I get about my
podcast. It's like
>> I got to listen to these ads. The very
first ad we ever sold, we said, "What
sponsor could we get that would make
people perceive acquired to be a higher
quality brand?" So, we could like have
our cake and eat it too. We'll get
>> I tried this. I had a thought about this
on mine and no one ever took me up on
it. Just find the things I actually use
and I'll and I and it will be fun to
talk about them. I want to I want to
tell the whole world about exeicio
underpants and [laughter]
and I can't get Exeicio to return my
calls. I mean, that kind of thing.
foolish.
>> I just sleep with the Wait, so literally
you're telling me that Michael Lewis
called
I didn't I just gave them a I gave my
podcast a list of things that I really
love. Just love.
>> Oh, wait. You got to call them. That's
the That's the problem.
>> And well, that probably is the problem.
My podcast company does not does not
actually sell the ads. Another company
sells the ads. And so it's just I that I
thought that was the way to make it
seamless is actually integral to my life
will be the things that we're talking
about.
>> So that is a structural blocker to
creating the best experience,
>> right?
>> And everything has a trade-off. The
trade-off for us is we spend an enormous
amount of time engaging with our
sponsors. We write a custom read for
every single sponsor, every single
episode. We try to write it as if we're
almost like talking about what we think
is interesting about the business. We're
doing this like mini two-minute analysis
and you know there's some horse trading
there of we have to make these points.
Okay. But like for the most part and the
best sponsor relationships are the ones
where they say like yeah your listeners
are going to respond the best
>> to what you have to say.
>> Yeah. So so if you're Michael Lewis we
want you to be a sponsor. I would say
we're not coming to pitch you like we're
we're deciding a year in advance
>> now too
>> when we're when we're now two years in
advance like what do we want our slate
of partners to look like right
>> so we start Michael Lewis Inc. we think
is going to be super strategic for us in
2027, 2028. We start planning like,
okay, how are we going to make this
happen? How are we going to make sure
that we we really you you Michael Lewis
Inc. is as good as we think it could be.
>> How are we going to make sure that we're
going to work really well together that
you're going to see massive ROI from us?
>> At any point, do you sit there worrying
that you're compromising the, you
[clears throat] know, the the shows
because of your the relationship you're
about to have with an advertiser?
>> No. There's been companies that don't
feel Switzerland enough that come to us
that want to sponsor and we just like
the idea of
not picking a venture capital firm to
say we think this is the best venture
capital firm. It's like too much of a
picking team.
>> That's I've never heard anybody say
that. They don't feel Switzerland
enough. Is this a is this a is this a
cliche in the VC business?
>> No, I think [laughter] that's a lovely
line. So you're looking for Switzerland.
>> Yes.
>> And what do you mean by that? companies
that we think are great where we don't
have to take a side in like a big
contentious
current thing conversation
>> or the industry dynamics are
>> Coca-Cola
>> we don't really deal with
>> we don't okay number one
>> okay here we go
>> B2B companies with high very high LTB
products
>> so not not ex official underwear
>> basically we want companies that are
doing a significant number of
multi-million dollar annual deals with
customers because we want to feel like
we can deliver a couple incremental of
those for youirectly to us. Yeah. And
then like it's just a no-brainer.
>> Many of our sponsors have been ROI
positive on signing one large customer
who heard about them unacquired. That is
awesome.
>> And often it's not even just heard about
unacquired. It's events are are a big
part of this. Uh so we do events with
almost all of our sponsors. So
>> there's the funnel of like heard about
unacquired. That helps. But then like
we're doing a event together with them.
We're sitting next to their best
prospect.
>> So, so I'm I'm thinking about hiring
you. What kind of event will you do for
me?
>> We're happy to join for a customer
dinner. We're happy to speak at your big
annual customer conference.
>> We're happy to uh we're happy to go to a
sporting event with you with your top
clients. We're happy to
>> And at that sporting event, will you do
like some
>> fireside chat? Some fireside chat. Yeah.
>> Interview your CEO.
>> Interview a legend from the sport. How
many hours of your time am I gonna get?
>> A couple days. Couple days.
>> We're there full and while we're there
with you, it's like there. How can you
maximize using us?
>> You promised to be my friend.
>> Yeah, of course.
>> You'll be my friend, too, in the
bargain.
>> We're great friends with a whole bunch
of Okay, so then it gets even better.
So, we um let me let me tell you more.
>> Tell me more. [laughter]
I'm getting interested. I'm on the edge
of my seat here.
>> The reason this whole thing works is the
people who listen to a choir are the
most valuable audience in the world. And
so if you want to market your B2B
software or financial product or
whatever to them,
>> founders are executive decision makers,
right?
>> But really, I mean, take a step back. I
think the whole business side and a lot
of the content too, but the whole
business side of acquired starts with we
were venture capitalists. We're not
media people. So we have just always
taken an approach. You're aspiring to be
a great partner to them. You know,
you're going to help recruit employees,
you're going to help with whatever. And
so we just like like great that's how we
approach our partners,
>> right? Why do you think maybe you've
just answered the question? Why do you
think no other podcast has approached
their business in the way you approach
your business?
>> I think we just came at it from like
this this
>> you think coming from a kind of media
space and the media space was kind of
bad business.
>> Okay, here's a take. The media business
model of splitting the commercial
activity from the editorial
>> is a societal benefit that we all
benefit from from publications like the
New York Times.
>> Yep.
>> Journalism.
>> It is really good for journalism that
that exists. The rest seems to have
adopted it and everyone doesn't need to.
>> Right.
if you're the host of Acquired, it's
kind of great if you're going and
learning about your sponsor's business
and working with them and trying to
build partnerships with them. It was
almost like it um we had the luxury of
getting to rethink what our operational
model looks like.
>> So then the thing that brought it full
circle a couple years ago is we added an
investment fund. So not our public
company sponsors, but almost all of our
private company sponsors, we invested
them. So it came full circle.
>> You all you created an investment fund.
You two are met, you are you you're the
ones who are making the investments.
>> Yes.
>> Is it how you doing?
>> It's quite full circle. We're only a
year in, but we've we've invested in uh
five of our sponsors, and several of
them are more valuable than when we've
invested.
>> Yeah. We we we asked ourselves, we're
like, how do we do this? The focus is
the show. If we're for a venture capital
firm with the podcast, it does doesn't
work. We need to do a podcast for the
venture capital firm. The way we make
this work is we just invest in our
sponsors. We put all this work into
finding the best partners for our
sponsors in every category that we think
are great. Why wouldn't we just invest
in them? We don't do any incremental
work.
>> Invest in all of your sponsors.
>> No, but a lot of the time like we'll
just get a call that, hey, we're raising
an up round. We we want to talk about it
in the next ad read. And we say, oh,
that's cool. Can we can we invest a
couple million dollars? And they're
like, the round's like 300 million, so
no one on the cap table's going to care,
and we love that you're more aligned
with us now, so we'll make room. So you
you're only really accepting as sponsors
companies that you would like to invest
in.
>> That's essentially the frame we we put
on the whole thing.
>> It's not a perfect mobile.
>> JP Morgan is not an example.
>> Right. Right. We we think it we like
having a couple public companies JP
Morgan, Shopify, Service Now.
>> And how deep is this market? How many
acquireds could be created on the back
of this business model?
>> Oh, I think a lot. The question that I'm
always wondering is why aren't there
more acquireds out there?
>> I'm asking that question now.
>> The format. Here's the ingredients.
>> Two hosts that independently go do
research and through storytelling, like
narrative storytelling and analysis,
create a conversational audio book.
Could be about businesses, could be
about sports teams, could be about
movies,
>> political parties, could be about any
how
>> any arena of ambition as you would say.
>> There should be unacquired in all these
other verticals. In fact, the business
vertical
>> there's a lot more lot more money in
business.
>> Yes. in tech and finance.
>> I think there's there's a bit of a cold
start if you were to propose
>> going and creating an acquired for um
sports. Uh you would the sort of risk I
guess we took we didn't think about it
as risk at the time because it was just
a hobby was you you're looking at years
of no or little monetization, right?
Because it's going to take a long time
to build up the audience, right?
>> Versus, oh, I could go join a network. I
could join make a show on the ringer.
could, you know, do whatever.
>> Acquired was path dependent on us having
day jobs for sure.
>> Right.
>> And day jobs in the industry that you're
going to cover,
>> right?
>> Yeah. Right.
>> We built half the relationships and all
the knowhow and all the shortorthhand
none from being in the industry before.
>> So I asked you how many acquireds could
be created in in just your space.
What percentage of the advertising
revenues do you think you're hoovering
up
>> in the way you're hoovering them up
>> in like b business
>> the B2B like the things you the kind of
people you will accept as your sponsors
how many times
>> well they're uh fortunately for there
there are a lot more people who want to
sponsor acquired than
>> that's what I mean like how many more
are there
>> a lot
>> there's probably we're probably three or
4x overs subscribed on on like
>> people who really could convert on
becoming sponsors. If we said, "Sure,
we'll take you."
>> How come you don't spawn an extra
acquired or two? How come?
>> Well, I think that that uh why don't you
create Why don't you create the next
use?
>> Then we're not acquired.
>> Then we're not usually
>> do less.
>> Then we become CEOs, right?
>> We do not want to build.
>> Yeah. So now you've decided No, it's
funny. You There's a line that um that
you don't you don't have bosses.
>> Yeah.
>> You you have incentives.
>> Yeah. But you don't have bosses
>> and we're not other people's bosses.
>> That's like my life, too. I have a lot
of incentives. I have no bosses. When
you're in any kind of creative thing,
there is this benefit to not just
following the financial incentives and
and not trying to kind of like milk
every last penny out of it. And to
creating scarcity, not just for the sake
of the scarcity, but for the sake of the
quality.
>> Yeah.
>> And only do it if it's great. If you
only do it, it's it's a long-term
strategy. I mean, it's not that I think
all my books are great. I don't write
them, though, unless I think they're
going to be great. Yeah. I just don't.
>> Well, why would you allocate? Let's say
you have a portfolio of however many
more years you think you're going to
write, 20, 30. Why would you allocate,
you know, I don't know how a year and a
half? Why would you blow a slot on a bad
book?
>> That's a gaping hole.
>> I give you a a reason why some people
might. a publisher offers me gazillion
dollars to write a book about X
>> and how much
>> I know the book's gonna suck because
it's not actually a good idea for a book
and it's not gonna be fun to do because
all the fun is in it may be great.
>> Is there any chance any of those dollars
make your life better at this point?
>> Zero.
>> So this is the thing people miss. What
is Lane Kein going to get out of an
extra couple of million dollars going to
LSU from Old Miss? Yeah. the average
athlete who's taking a few million
dollars more to move his wife and kids
from one family, one city that they
loves him and that he loves to some
strange place where everybody's going to
be unhappy.
>> People do this all the time.
>> All dollars do not have equivalent
value. No,
>> the the marginal dollars have way
smaller value than the early dollars.
>> Sometimes they end up having kind of
negative value and you become a person
who that's what you're about. It's like
you're saying, "I'm going to be the
person who just follows the financial
incentives rather than I'm going to
control the I'm going to let these
incentives do." They could be useful.
They get you out of bed in the morning
for a while, but you you have to kind of
kind of control them. So, I love that
you're not milking the market.
>> I think there's two different things
that we're talking about here. One is uh
milking the market, yes or no. Uh the
other one is do you want to build an
enterprise or do you want to stay a
boutique? So like to to your question
for us like why don't we create more of
choirs like we we we don't want to
manage other shows podcast hosts
>> people people often tell us like oh
you're building this business you guys
are sort of foolish because there's
there's all this keyman risk like you're
building this great business but if
either of you leave unfortunately your
business has low enterprise value and
we're like
>> okay
>> but if we sold this business then we
would just go start acquired [laughter]
>> like we're already doing the dream
>> yeah the dream is what we're doing
>> all right so I took us off on a sid
track. We've only gotten through four. I
[laughter] want to hear the fifth. We've
gotten like five or six. We've got a
bunch. I want to hear number. What's the
fifth lesson you learned? Founder
control was my a huge one.
>> Is this from Google?
>> I think we we again this is one of these
things that we like learned early but
then got reinforced through episodes.
Meta, Rolex,
>> Trader Joe's,
>> IKEA.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh like stay private, be familyowned.
>> You don't even have to take Meta's
public company, but but yeah, Founder. I
mean Google, too. Google's founder
controlled to
>> the important things in the world
probably should be big publicly traded
corporations. But like there's these
amazing wonderful things you can create
by being boutique and and maintaining
control.
>> I think there's an argument to be made
that in any industry where they're both
private and public companies. The
private companies end up being much
better run. And I mean like that mostly
bad things happen when companies go
public and certainly less pleasant. So
public or private, your point is founder
control.
>> But there's also just like a personal
choice element. Uh last year we
we we had a like a existential crisis is
way too dramatic. But I think something
that was on our minds was like are we
being wussies?
>> We're not doing Hollywood. We're not uh
adding more shows. We're not building an
enterprise.
>> What triggered this? Are we being
wussies?
>> We were currently researching Bell Labs.
>> And I think I felt like we were like
chasing this like esotericness.
So, we we sought some advice and we went
to one of the best investors ever who
who we've gotten to know who's a fan of
the show, you know, some somebody
everybody would know. And uh we we asked
him to dinner and we just sort of like,
hey, we we've got this, you know, we
could do all these things. We're we're
not like Hollywood, etc.
>> And we sort of expected his comment
>> to be like dream bigger. Like, you know,
go for it. Like, you know, you guys are
being wussies. And he sort of sat there
and he thought a minute and he said, "I
have seen so many founders
become trapped in prisons of their own
making in their own companies."
>> And they're successful prisons.
>> Yeah. Yeah. You guys have avoided that
fate. Don't go down that road.
>> But what is I'm I'm missing actually the
connection. Oh,
>> why if you why if you were less
wussy-ish would you have created
>> higher people uh take on business, start
a second show.
Yeah, business wussies.
>> I thought maybe you were I thought you
were saying you were avoiding like the
>> cont Yeah, that's a whole separate
wussies. But no, no, we we asked
ourselves, are we being business
wussies?
>> I see. Uh
>> but they sort of go hand in hand like
cheap growth is covering the current
thing.
>> It it will uh I've been toying with this
idea of um stored potential energy that
like great businesses have a stored
potential energy that you can't see in
the current financials. And
>> great people have that too.
>> Great people have that too. They have
these reserves that you just they come
out when they need them
>> and they're not like presented in
obviously they aren't sparkling there in
front of your eyes anyway. And I think
we um we're trying to like store up as
much potential energy and acquire it as
we can rather than anytime there's a way
to uh make it show up on the financial
statements sort of like letting out the
pressure and being like, "Yep, second
show. Yep, more ads. Yep, dynamic ads
from an ad network." Yeah, like just you
can say yes to all these things and you
can sugar high the current profits or
you can try to like figure out how to
store up as much potential energy as you
can,
>> right?
>> And I think once you kind of hit the
point in life where
money won't make you any happier, then
there's there's actually not a point to
letting any of that potential energy
out. It just creates goodwill for
everyone, most principally, selfishly
yourself, to to keep it bottled.
>> Right. All right. So, how do we get on
that? We I don't know how we get we got
[laughter] that from
>> founder control.
So, that was number five. Number six,
>> uh okay, I've got one from um this is a
nonobvious one.
>> Also, can I just say like sometimes we
do some stuff like this. We are not like
saints. We're capitalists. Like, we're
running a capitalist enterprise here.
>> Sometimes we hire a production crew.
>> Yeah. Sometimes we uh last year we added
a fourth ad slot. We always had three.
Last year we looked at ourselves and we
said there's four podcast episodes.
We're currently at like 2% 3% ad load.
Everyone [laughter] else is at 15%. God
forbid we go to four and a half% of
time. So like we we indulge
occasionally.
>> All right listeners, this is a great
time to thank our friends at Sentry.
That's s N T R Y, like someone's
standing guard,
>> which is exactly what they do for
developers. Sentry helps teams debug
everything from errors to latency issues
and fix them before users get mad. And
since this episode we are reflecting on
10 years of acquired, it's fitting to
look at Sentry's journey, which actually
looks a lot like our story. They started
in 2008 as a tiny open- source project,
not even a company. And the goal was to
solve one simple problem. Alert me when
something is broken. It wasn't born out
of a big budget or a funding round. No
big strategy offsite. just a developer
seeing something broken in the world and
fixing it.
>> And from there, they just listened to
what developers needed. More language
support, insight into what happened
before an error, who was affected, which
release broke, and where the bug lived.
Century delivered all these and slowly
started compounding and making the
product better every week for 17ish
years. And that's why more than 150,000
organizations trust them today. And the
range of those companies is incredible.
Disney Plus, Duolingo, Friends of the
Show over at Verscell and Anthropic.
There's Cloudflare, GitHub, At Lassian,
also a ton of indie developers who are
shipping features at 2 in the morning.
Sentry has just become a key part of how
modern software gets built. The product
has grown the way the best companies do,
expanding organically into other tools
that give developers granular context
like tracing, profiling, and session
replays. And now Sentry is taking the
next step with AI. Their agent, Seir,
can pinpoint root causes with nearly 95%
accuracy by using everything that Sentry
already knows, including errors, logs,
traces, and code. It even suggests
fixes. And because Seir has that full
context, it can review a pull request
and spot bugs before they ever ship.
This is not noisy code review. This is
like real error prediction. So, as
Acquired celebrates our own decade of
learning and improvement, it is fitting
to partner with a company that has been
on a learning and improvement journey
right along with the rest of the
software industry over that same time.
Yes. So, thanks to Sentry for helping
make sure that everyone's favorite apps
work the way they should. You can check
them out at centry.io/acquired.
That's s ny.io/acquired.
And just tell them that Ben and David
sent you.
>> Okay. So sometimes we make episodes that
either we think are going to be great or
we're just really interested in them and
they like in the numbers wise they don't
perform.
>> They don't or they you know we the the
great thing about podcasting is like
it's always within like a 20 30% range.
So it's not like it's a total flop.
>> But give me an example of the of the
podcast the extreme version of the one
you all were most excited about that
didn't resonate with your audience in
the same
>> Okay. Well, so the the lesson here is is
going to be Yeah. Um Nintendo, we
thought Nintendo was going to be a
>> big such a great it's an incredible
history, incredible story, incredible
company. N of one company, durable over
a hundred years plus. Uh has been
through so many iterations. People love
it.
You know, 20% underperformed our
benchmark at the time. Um we're like,
"Oh man."
>> And then we did a part two to really dig
ourselves. Yeah.
You know what people don't love is part
twos.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> They really don't love part two when
they don't love part one.
>> Let me tell that joke again. It's so
funny that you might do better the
second time.
>> Exactly. Exactly. Exactly.
>> It's is a necessary subset. You never
tune in to something called part two
without part one. And so the dumbest
thing you can do if you're focused on
growth is have an underperforming part
one followed by a part two.
>> Right. [laughter] Yeah. Yeah.
>> But we did it and you liked it. We had a
great time.
>> Nintendo, it's like one of the most
[laughter] interesting I mean it started
as a a Yakuza company. Uh like it's it's
crazy.
>> How did it start?
>> It was playing cards. So gambling was
illegal in Japan uh after the major
restoration. Okay.
>> And so they made Hanafuda cards which
are cards in Japan and the Yakuza was
the main customer.
>> And then they got into toys and then
they way later found their way into
>> Japanese mafia was the main customer.
That's funny.
>> Yeah. This is amazing amazing story and
that they have this uh philosophy called
lateral thinking with withered
technology which is if you look at
Nintendo systems you can go way way way
back it's not bleeding edge technology
it's like
>> a couple generations back technology how
can we take withered technology and
think outside the box with it so like
the Wii is the best example of this the
game boy was the original example of
this the game boy was basically a
calculator but like you know it didn't
have a color screen it had two buttons
like you know but it was this incredible
success.
>> You can see the passion.
>> I feel like I'm about to get you into
part three.
>> Yeah, [laughter] exactly. WE'RE GOING TO
DO PART THREE.
>> OKAY. OKAY. OKAY. But but here's the
lesson. Another episode that was totally
like this. Indian Premier League
cricket. Underperformed.
>> Love that show.
>> Incredible story. Incredible story.
>> You either really loved it or didn't
listen at all.
>> Yeah. This is the lesson. It's first.
It's the first of your shows I listened
to.
>> That was started with IPL. You are
making the point.
>> This is why we did IPL. It's all worth
it if we just got Michael. I'm I'm a
partial owner of the RAJASTHAN ROYALS.
>> YOU ARE NOT.
>> I HAVE A ROYALS JERSEY.
>> YOU and [laughter] Minaj is the majority
owner. He's a majority owner. So, it's a
very tiny slice, but I but as I haven't
been over I still can't explain the
game, but the league
>> Okay. How did you become a minority
owner?
>> Two friends, I leave their names out of
it. Um, but you know who they both were.
>> Okay.
>> Call and said, "There's this guy who's
got this cricket team. He wants to make
it the money ball of [laughter]
>> Oh, they're the Oakland days of the IPL.
Exactly. I got it. Yeah.
>> And he's he'd be open to having you
invest. And they were both good filters.
Like if they were interested, it was
already smart.
>> And I also thought
>> it was small enough that if it went
wrong, it would be an amazing story.
>> And even if it [laughter] goes right,
even if it goes right.
>> Have you met Lot Modi?
>> No. No. [laughter] No. I haven't met
anybody but Maninoj and and and it's oh
boy oh boy oh boy no I know there's a
whole
>> have we got a subject for you
>> but [laughter] I'm not I don't want to
redo your podcast it's just like there
may be some way down the so that was the
other thing I was thinking like that a
number of this could work out a number
of ways
>> so that anyway that was the first one I
listened to it and you
>> that was a un that was an it's an
unbelievable story
>> oh it's unbelievable
>> everybody in the world should listen to
this thing
>> and it underperformed
>> and yet it underperformed
>> okay but here but here's the lesson
>> both Nintendo and IPL
we got they were the first listening
experiences for some incredibly
influential people who have changed the
>> direction I think we can share the whole
story yeah
>> Nintendo was
>> specifically listened to by one person
on the meta executive team who found it
thought it was amazing sent it to the
entire Metaexecutive team right and then
they all listened
>> right built
>> we built a relationship with them and
then when JP Morgan called us and said
>> we've got Chase Center
>> yeah and they were like what would you
do? And we asked this person like, hey,
do you think Mark would want to do it?
And
>> and he said, I don't know, but I'm going
to ask him right now.
>> Right. And so without the Nintendo
episode,
>> without the Nintendo episode, Mark
Zuckerberg doesn't do
>> no 6,000 person.
>> And we have some similar stories with
IPL. The point is that uh doing episodes
uh that we one or both of us is just
like insanely passionate about.
>> Where'd you learn this from? from doing
these episodes and like underperforming.
But
>> no, we learned it from LVMH. I pitched
that like three times and you were like,
>> "No, no, but LVMH was a banger. It
performed great."
>> Which is why we learned the lesson that
if one of us feels passionate about
something, go for it.
>> Oh, no. But I'm making a different
point, which is that if one of us feels
passionate about something, even if the
episode is a relative dud, it's still
worth doing because
somebody latches on to that.
>> That's exactly right. If you don't feel
anything, no, there's chance nobody's
going to feel anything. If you feel a
lot, someone's going to feel
>> someone's going to feel something.
>> That's right. Yeah,
>> that's right. So, go. So, trust that
feeling.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It's about the magnitude of the
way a small number of people feel about
episodes often more than the
>> Yeah. the spread.
>> I think that's right.
>> Yeah.
>> No, sometimes we're passionate about
something and it becomes a banger. You
know, that's that's the ideal. Rent
Renaissance Technologies. That was
amazing. That was incredible.
>> That's one of the episodes I've listened
to. I loved it, too.
>> So great. It's one of like the two great
mysteries on Wall Street. How they do
what they do
>> and who is Satoshi. [laughter]
>> Those are the two.
>> I kind of like the take that they
invented machine learning a decade or
two before and kept it secret that
resembles LLMs and that they were able
to find signal that existed only in
really weak ways in in a predictable
alpha generating
>> but that nobody else found it too. So
that it all went away because they hid
it at the same time as they found it.
>> Yes.
>> That's mindblowing if true
>> that that could still be going on with I
mean you can see why it worked through
the ' 90s.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> It's really hard with like Jane Street
and Citadel and all these other places
looking for every bit of signal in the
marketplace. It is an amazing story and
that is of the books I didn't write that
I wished I'd written.
>> Were did you consider doing? I so Jim
Simon's son had a kid in my oldest
child's class in high school and I tried
I appro I said look I can't do it unless
you want me to do it there's no point
and he said like dad just like
[laughter] no no no this whole business
of kind of doing it by radar completely
from the outside you know you're going
to get so many things wrong yeah
>> and it's like and embarrass yourself
that you need to be so inside so that
you don't so that the person you're
writing about doesn't and say like
that's just completely wrong and uh and
that I could have done that book but why
you know that that that didn't appeal to
me. What appealed to me was he was at
the end of his career. I didn't need all
the secrets but I needed some of the
secrets and uh and I and I would need
him and uh but that's one that's on my
Oh, that's too bad that one got away.
>> Yeah. If a butterfly had flapped its
wings differently and he collaborated,
>> it would have been fabulous book. Yeah,
>> it would have been a fabulous book. Um,
all right, number seven.
>> It's a different twist on the NFL that,
but we definitely learned it from the
NFL. Create spectacle.
>> All right, we now
>> a live event strategy.
>> Yeah, there's twofold. One, we now have
stopped thinking about acquired as a
habit for people. Most podcasts, your
dream is to create a habit.
>> Yeah.
>> And ours, we've thrown that out the
window and said,
>> you don't do enough of them.
>> Right. Right.
>> So, we need to create events. It needs
to be the current thing when we release
an episode for whatever your group of
friends or you know acquaintances is
like it has to be the watercooled
conversation.
>> It has to be Monday Night Football
>> and then once a year we have to have a
Super Bowl.
>> Yeah.
>> And doing the Chase Center show and then
the Radio City show. Very small amount
of people in the audience. I mean
>> 6,000
>> 6. So it's Yeah. Great. It's the world's
largest indoor theater. It's 6,000
people in this incredible venue in New
York City. relative to the number of
people who
still it's
>> uh point4% of the audience it's very
small
>> tiny percentage
>> but the amount of heat and light created
from the the idea that you did that show
>> right
>> is more impactful to building the
franchise of acquired than any given
episode maybe even than a whole season
of episodes.
>> What's uh what's the first spectacle you
created?
Well, Chase Center was the first we we
had been steth
we had been um uh we did a show in
climate pledge arena in Seattle uh but
it was one section
>> but actually by being able to say we did
an arena show even though
>> we talked about it on air as the
acquired arena show and that had some
>> we were able to say to to JP Morgan to
Chase Center to the Warriors like we
have done this before. I'm gonna ask
rude a couple of rude questions. You're
you're a Radio City uh musical event.
This is with Jamie Diamond. 6,000 people
>> and Meredith Copet Levian New York Times
CEO and Barry Diller.
>> Okay. So, the three how many people are
there for them and how many people are
there for you?
>> We did not announce the guests.
>> Oh,
>> so they were they were all there
[laughter] for acquired
>> mostly because I wanted to give this
answer.
>> We knew Michael at the end of [laughter]
the year was going to ask this
>> question. So I So So all they knew was
it was going to be acquired with the
guest.
>> Was it sold out before you announced the
guest?
>> We didn't announce the guest. So the
guest stage is a surprise.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh,
>> it hurt in my soul when we did Chase
Center afterwards reflecting on it.
There was this little thing of like did
all those people show up because it said
Mark Zuckerberg on the poster.
>> Yeah. Well, now you know. So now we
know. So now you know. So are you So
that's this is your form of spectacle is
these big public shows. Any other forms
of spectacle on the horizon? Well, we
are doing the actual Super Bowl, so this
is coming. We We basically manifested
this. Uh,
>> are you the halftime show?
>> I wish us and Bad Buddy. [laughter]
We're gonna be on
>> I would love the reaction of the NFL fan
base. It's [laughter] not going to be
music.
>> Ben and David are going to be an
acquired episode.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. With Payton and [laughter] Eli
Manning.
>> The NFL that would so good. Manning has
the only way I watch Monday Night
Football. Now,
>> we're doing the Innovation Summit. So
the NFL is launching
>> launching a innovation summit the Friday
before the Super Bowl because the Super
Bowl's here in uh in San Francisco this
year. So they're launching an innovation
summit Friday before the Super Bowl with
all the you know big partners in the NFL
with Roger Goodell. Uh it'll be in the
city in San Francisco and we're going to
MC it.
>> Okay. So do you know who your guests are
going to be?
>> We do. They haven't been announced yet,
but it'll be it'll be on par with with
our past.
>> Where are you doing this?
>> Uh venue SF Mama. Oh yeah. Okay.
>> It's it's not uh it's not going to be
open to the public. It'll be it'll be
streamed.
>> Um so it'll be a different style of
event than uh
>> VIP for the for uh it's for the NFL's
partners, right?
>> Um but uh yeah, it's going to be it's
going to be incredible.
>> All right, let's go to I think we're on
number nine.
>> All right, we're home. So, we made
Costco
uh in the back half of 2023, but it was
one or two episodes after we made Nike.
Nike, I think, ended up being a fine
episode, but I tried way too hard, like
way too much pressure on myself. I won't
speak for you, on on the Nike episode,
and it it uh it came out flat.
>> We read nine books between us, right, to
prepare.
>> I think it was 11. So, it was just too
much for all sorts of reasons. And so,
like we were like burnt out. We're not
happy. We decided to do Costco. I said
like I I just gota I got to take a
different approach here. I got to play
loose on this one. Like I can't, you
know, play tight to use the sports
analogy. And I said like let's let's
find the the one book like the right
book,
>> right?
>> Help that there was only really one
book. Read read that book. Uh Salt
Price's autobiography, right?
>> Read that. [laughter]
>> Right.
>> Use that as the main source. Uh you got
maybe one of the best primary source
interviews ever. the the CFO of Costco
gave you a one-on-one presentation.
>> Come over to the office and I'll sit you
down and give you the entire whiteboard
and PowerPoint on how the Costco
business model works and we spent the
whole afternoon together and it was
>> and between those two things, the book
>> and that time that you you spent with
Richard, that was that was the and we
didn't need to do more than that.
>> When you went into it, did you know
anything?
>> Yes.
>> What did you know
>> when we went into starting work on
Costco? We we knew nothing.
>> Correct. But I knew a lot going into
that meeting. I want I wanted to be able
to hear the things he was saying that
were different than common wisdom. When
you there's a lot of think pieces out
there about Costco. The Wall Street
Journal loves to write about it.
Investors love to write about the stock.
So you can kind of
>> Charlie's favorite company. You know,
there's lots of stuff out there.
>> And I I wanted to hear this was actually
one of the last pieces of research
because I wanted to be really prepped.
What did you you know you were talking
about
when you're working on an episode and
you're going for a run and you some and
you make some connection or some insight
occurs to you and you stop and you write
it down.
>> What? Give me a few of the ones about
Costco.
>> Low skew count drives everything.
>> Oh, all right.
>> That's that's the like the the
>> number of things they have on the do you
want the Charlie Mer talk? This
[laughter] is the
>> the number of things they have on the
shelf. So unlike Walmart, they has
billions of things.
>> Walmart has 100 to 200,000 skis.
>> You get what you get. You don't pitch a
fit. Whatever's there is there.
>> 4,000 things.
>> Walmart is 100 to 200,000.
>> Yeah. And here's like all the knock-on
effects of that. If you only sell 4,000
things, it doesn't take a lot of volume
before very quickly you are a meaningful
seller to every single one of those
products, those vendors.
>> Suddenly you become really important to
that vendor. Right.
>> Your merchandisers, since you only have
4,000,
>> so your incentives start to enign.
>> Yes. The the merchandisers have a very
small portfolio. You're not dealing
>> if you're a Walmart buyer, you're
dealing with hundreds of vendors.
>> You're dealing with seven. And you would
know the absolute crap out of their
product line. If you sell chocolate, you
monitor the price in cocoa commodities
markets, right? And if it takes someone
who's managing a very small portfolio to
stay that attuned to each one of the
things, small skew count means that any
given thing on the shelf flies off the
shelf pretty quick.
>> So there's not Yeah. So the turn, so
there's more flow.
>> They're getting they're getting in some
cases, they're getting multiple turns of
cash flow before they pay the first
time. On average, it takes them 27 days
to sell through their entire inventory,
which means that's on net 30 terms,
three days of grace where the inventory
is actually financed by the vendors and
then some.
>> And I think on average it's 27. So some
SKUs are selling in two days that
they're turning. They're turning at 10
times a month.
>> There's no working capital in this
business other than building more
Costos,
>> right?
Low skew count for Costco is like low uh
low episode volume for you. Right.
Right.
>> 100%. [laughter]
We Yes. Right.
>> And low number of partners so we can put
like all of our being, you know, it's
not normal. It's not really natural for
a business to sell less of things, sell
fewer things when you could sell more
things. [laughter] But actually doing
that and when you walk into it is the
odd experience when you walk into Costco
is the absence of choice.
>> Yeah. And in fact, consumers kind of
like not having too much choice.
>> This is the
>> There's all this there's all this
research showing that if you if you sell
30 different kinds of jams in the
supermarket, you will sell less jam than
if you sell three kinds of jam because
the the people just be paralyzed by the
choice.
>> Yes.
>> And you smell you feel like Costco.
Someone has made all these decisions for
me.
>> And they're good decisions.
>> Yes. It's curated.
>> Yeah.
>> You can't just run this strategy
willy-nilly. If you're only going to
sell very few things, you're only going
to make very few episodes. It puts a lot
of onus on making exceptional choices on
the things that you do choose to carry,
right? So, it's like a very high
leveraged strategy.
>> But, you didn't know anything about any
of this when you went into the episode.
>> No, we were just The only reason we did
the episode was it was Charlie Mer's
favorite company.
>> All right. Give me another Give me
another lesson.
>> How are we doing?
>> Is this the last?
>> This is acquired, Michael.
>> Okay. I KNOW. I KNOW. [laughter] I know.
>> You said you didn't have any plans
tonight.
We were sitting down with Morris Chang
and he was talking about TSMC and he
told us that one of the ways that they
aired was trying to exit the integrated
circuit market or diversify from that
market and go into
>> solar memory
>> memories and there was one other thing
too and none of those were as good of a
business and the the key insight was
you're already in the best business.
Integrated circuits are the future and
will be for a long time and you're
already the best at them. So stop trying
to do other things and just do that
really well. Uh probably to a fault and
with a bias. We believe that about
acquired every time we look at anything
else
>> we're do already doing the thing we
should be doing. Don't go do something
that we're less good at or it's going to
be less fun or right.
>> We should always just make another
>> you have decided to become venture
capitalists
>> again. [laughter] So the qu So here's a
here's a I'm curious. What's the
difference between what you do and what
a normal Silicon Valley venture
capitalist does before they put money in
a company? Do you think you know?
>> Well, I think there's a I think there's
a there's there's just a um I think
there's a top level misconception about
what the venture capital industry is.
>> All right.
>> Uh I think a lot of people think it is a
analytical industry. You're learning all
about the company. You're doing
diligence. It's not that you're not. You
are doing that. But that's the
commodity. It's an access business,
>> especially at the growth stage. Yeah.
Early stage, there's more picking
involved.
>> But that picking is like a super art.
It's not a early stage picking is not a,
you know, understanding a company,
>> right? Early it's a it's a whole
different thing.
>> So the entire bet that we've made in
this chapter of our venture capital
careers is a bet that getting into the
best companies is just an access thing.
the, you know, growth stage private
companies, you can tell what the good
ones are. Most people can't get in. If
you can, you should.
>> Or, you know, I mean, with we do the
work in choosing our sponsors and then
we you're like, "Okay, great. That box
checked. Our sponsors are not um
nonobvious companies that all growth
stage investors don't want to get into.
For the kind of work that you do to do a
a podcast episode about a company, does
it bear any resemblance to the kind of
work a VC does uh about a company before
they invest in it?
>> Uh I don't think so. I wrote a lot of
investment memos in my early stage
career. They're all about
how big could this thing be if it goes
right. But you're almost always
investing, at least I was, at the napkin
stage. And so you're you're mostly
making stuff up. you're you're like
dreaming what this market could look
like when it materializes, but like you
don't know. You're really just making a
founder bet and then you're trying to
support it with all this like structural
information that is a very um imprecise,
>> right?
>> You're acting like you know the third or
fourth decimal place when in reality you
barely know the first one.
>> You answer my my question was is are
these two things similar? And you're
saying basically not so much. So that
means that being a venture capitalist in
no way really prepared you to create
these podcast episodes because they're
very different things.
>> Well, I think it I I think it prepared
us to create the business that we
created for sure.
>> But what have you learned? Put question
another way. What have you learned about
telling a story
>> uh that you didn't know how to do?
reading your books and you know being a
liberal arts you know major at Princeton
for me
>> studying the businesses that we studied
for acquired
>> helps me make acquired far more than any
investment memo I ever wrote in fact I
remember in one of my last few years of
being a venture capitalist one of my
partners uh asked me how I like learned
so much so quickly about different
industry dynamics and I was like it's
it's not cuz I'm talking all these early
stage companies none of which know the
future looks like. It's studying these
mature businesses and understanding what
markets can look like at maturity.
Acquired helped me be an investor much
better than the other way around.
>> Gotcha. What can you do now as
storytellers that you couldn't do 10
years ago?
>> I think we think about narrative
structure and acts uh and and what a
story is,
>> right? When we're reading books,
sometimes a lot of books, especially
corporate history books, are this
happened and then this happened and then
this happened and then this happened.
>> Y
>> that's fine for you know cataloging
history,
>> right? [laughter]
>> It's not a story.
>> That is not a story.
>> And at a certain point we realized like
>> you can't do and this happened,
>> right?
>> It's the why of it. It's the
>> it's the story flow.
>> The queen died and then the king died is
not a story the queen died and then the
king died of heartbreak is
>> Yeah. If someone just told you they told
me 10 years ago that two guys without
any previous really literary podcasting
any kind of experience we're going to
create this 4hour conversation about an
individual company and people are going
to be mesmerized by it. People are going
to listen to the whole thing and and
want even more. I said that doesn't
sound like very promising. Like I would
not I wouldn't put money into that.
>> Yeah. You wouldn't as if you're an early
stage. Like it's like why it works is a
really good question cuz it's not
obvious. It's counter to much of what's
going on in the culture like attention
spans supposedly getting shorter blah
blah blah but you like it does work. It
clearly works. It works as a business
but also works as just a creative thing.
Um and the why of it is like you must
think about this all the time. The why
of it.
>> Yeah. I there's a bunch of different
answers to this. One giant tailwind for
us is a year after we started the
podcast, AirPods came out
>> and it became societally acceptable to
just listen to stuff while you're moving
about the world
>> while you're talking to your mother.
>> Yes.
>> So there there um our brains all got two
input channels. Like we used to only
focus on one thing at a time. Everyone
now focuses on two things at a time. You
can't do the same thing. Like you can't
read and listen at the same time, but
you can drive and listen. You can run
and listen. You can do the dishes and
listen. And so we have this massive
tailwind of people have like a large
number of minutes throughout the day
where they're doing stuff that they can
also listen,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> Which that's true for all podcasts, but
like
>> there are a couple things that are true
for all podcasts. One one is AirPods. Uh
basically all the platform stuff that
happened over the last 10 years and we
started at the right time to advance. So
yeah,
>> AirPods, um, Spotify, Spotify didn't
enter podcast until 2018 and now is, I
think, over half of the market. Uh,
brought hundreds of millions of people
into podcasting.
>> Apple podcast not becoming YouTube was
actually great for us that it's a place
to to when you get a listener, you
really get a listener and it's like this
durable, incredibly valuable place to
accumulate listeners. Spotify is too,
but
>> um,
>> YouTube in its own way, too.
>> But there was zillions of podcasts and
not many are doing what you're doing.
So, so and they all have the
>> Yeah, we're dodging the question.
>> Uh, corporate America becomes ever more
important.
>> Yeah, that's that's completely right.
Right. It's like that what is going on
in the economy is is mysterious to
people.
These companies a lot of your episodes
have been about these companies about
Tesla and Nvidia and and and Microsoft
and Google and they people don't really
get them explained to them. So, that's
that's a big part of it. If I had
pitched you on acquired in 2015,
there's no way I would have said
acquired helps you understand why the
world is arranged the way it is. Yeah.
>> But now I think that is absolutely the
promise that we come through on.
>> Right.
>> I think the biggest reason acquired
works is is kind of how you started off
the conversation is just it it it's our
partnership. Like it's it's uh if just
one of us were making acquired, it would
be a shadow of itself. like the magic
exists between us and there's so many
there's there's a million times over the
last 10 years where like if we hadn't
just been you know that burn cigarettes
on our arms aligned that like it wasn't
even a conversation but like had our
partnership been slightly different like
it would have fractured
>> that's why we're still here
>> so I know I want you to do I want to
conclude this conversation because we
don't want to go three hours uh but but
but I want to do it by doing the seven
powers and apply it I [laughter] I want
you I want you to apply I want you
>> one of our most requested uh seven
powers for
>> acquire apply it to acquire
>> great
>> and then I can learn what these seven
powers are.
>> All right. So we are definitely a scale
economies business. The fact that
there's a large number of listeners to
amortize all the inputs across makes it
so that we can do an unreasonable amount
of things for each episode. Mhm.
>> I mean, if you were going to try to
compete with Acquired today, you
couldn't do all the stuff that we do
with a million listeners.
>> Yeah. Or the access or the
>> And you could do it for one or two or
three episodes, but if it didn't grow
quickly at some point, you'd be like,
it's not even about the money. It's
about like, why am I doing all this work
when no one is listening to it and it
would feel like that. So there was this
path dependent thing of we always had
the right product for the current amount
of value that it created in the world
which you can use listener base as a
proxy for and now because the listener
base is large we can afford to do things
other people can't which is sort of the
the definition of scale.
>> Put this even much more simply let's say
we and another podcast made the exact
same episode we've got a million and a
half subscribers they have zero. Our
episode is a lot more valuable even if
we said the exact same words in the
exact same way.
>> Yep. [clears throat]
>> Yep. Okay. Scale economies. Yes.
>> Uh
>> counterpositioning everywhere.
>> Counterpositioning. Counter position.
Okay.
>> Do a little meta thing and also explain
these powers.
>> Okay. Explain these powers. Okay.
Counterpositioning is when you do
something that your competitors just
cannot respond to.
>> Give me an example outside of the
podcasting world.
>> Yeah. So, what's a great example of
this? Um
>> Southwest Airlines launches. they only
use 737s.
Everyone else who already has fleets of
other planes can't do all the
streamlined operations that um Southwest
is going to do because they have all
these other sunk costs in this
diversified fleet,
>> right?
>> Or counter position that we're we're not
volume generally.
>> Most uh podcasts sell their ads on a CPM
basis and they are incentivized to make
as many episodes as possible with as
many ad slots as possible. Right.
>> Our business is entirely structurally
different.
>> Yes. We also to your benefit
>> don't have shareholders. So we can do
all these like non-economic things
because the the the thing we're solving
for the quotient is actually like our
lives,
>> right? Four episodes as opposed to six
or eight or one.
>> Yep. Right.
>> Right. It' be cool if it ends up being
just one episode a season.
>> This is David.
>> No [laughter] no no. That's my nightmare
is is that we actually we can't end up
if we if we end up at one episode a year
we're or one episode a season where we
It's time to hang it up. Time to
[laughter] hang it up.
>> Here's here's a rule. We we don't work
with agencies. If an agency reaches out
and says, "We want to place ads on your
podcast." We write them a very nice
note. If if we're if we're able to get
to the email and say, "Oh, we don't work
with agencies, but thank you so much for
your interest."
>> Can you imagine working at a podcast
network where there's a revenue
opportunity and you're saying, "Sorry,
we just don't you're a middleman in a
transaction and so therefore we won't
take your dollars."
>> Right. Yeah. So you're So
>> counter positioning. Yeah. All
>> counterpositioning is that in the number
of shows you do. So the kind of shows
>> that's how it expresses itself. But the
the because our business is structurally
different than most others like others
can't do what we're doing.
>> Network economies uh not really but
there's some water cooler effect of
people talk about acquired episodes
especially within companies right
>> so uh we release an episode it becomes a
topic of discussion. This is this is a
weak power but it exists to a small
extent.
>> If you like acquired more people liking
acquired is valuable because you get to
talk about it with more people right no
switching costs.
Switching cost is a power but it's super
easy to
>> explain switching costs.
>> Salesforce
>> yes
>> you got CRM on Salesforce
>> okay
>> and to switch to another CRM is just a
huge amount of cost okay associated with
that
>> even though you know let's say on a
day-to-day basis it's the same price or
cheaper it's just such a pain and an
economic tax to do a new implementation
of something
>> right y
>> we there's none of that people people
can Another podcast is one click away.
>> Listeners can switch.
>> There's no cost of switching out of
acquired into whatever might come along
that no cost to replace acquired.
>> Yep.
>> Don't have that.
>> Can I just also say this is so weird and
uncomfortable for me. Uh [laughter]
cuz like while I think we've created
this like beautiful gem and I love
thinking about it and talking about it
with you, it is terrifying to um talk
about it with everyone and also feel so
self argrandizing to like a little
thing.
>> What a great painting I have made.
>> No, no, no. This is but it's very useful
to think about this in this way. You've
got a framework. Let's think about your
frame. You and your framework. What's
the next power?
>> Uh branding. Uh
>> yes,
>> yes. Same again thought exercise, same
product released by a different podcast,
not called acquired, people just
acquired more,
>> right?
>> Yep.
>> Um,
>> and that's just growing.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Uh, cornered resource. Uh,
>> the business owns us.
>> Explain cornered resource. Give me an
example.
>> Ben Gilbert and David Rosenthal.
>> Uh, intellectual property.
>> Okay. Uh, patents.
>> Disney owns the likeness of Mickey
Mouse. Okay. You don't get to build a
business that benefits from the economic
value driven by Mickey Mouse,
>> right? Now, we're assuming hard to value
Ben and David.
>> We're assuming that you're a cornered
resource that the reasons that people
are tuning in is that it's your lovely
voices and the way you enthuse over this
stuff. It could be that you've just
actually found a thing.
>> It could be
>> that everybody wants and that if two
other people came in, they do it even
better
>> and that we there are people who create
it's early, they're small, but things
that resemble Acquired a lot. the step
change podcast by our friend Ben Idolson
is one of them where like it's doing
really well for a podcast that has three
episodes because the there's magic in
the format even if it's not us
>> yeah that is if there is a corner
resource it's you or your editor
>> or yeah or
>> whose name you won't divulge [laughter]
so suggesting that perhaps
>> yeah yeah yeah it could be a resource
>> okay
>> uh and then the last one is process
power
>> which almost always businesses don't
have
>> we and we have in spades
>> we totally
>> it's the same thing you have
>> because We we kind of failed to
articulate how an episode comes
together. We tried on this conversation
and we didn't really explain to you
exactly mechanically how an episode
comes together
>> except I can understand the iterations
but you you you vomit out eight hours if
your editor decides what's the best
five. It comes back to you and you and
and and you cut
>> who I show up with on recording day.
>> Oh, I see. So, we should maybe do this a
little bit here. Process. Can I guess?
Sure. because I actually don't know what
you show up with the recording. You both
I assume you each take a kind of part of
the story like either the history or um
current analysis of the business and
you're responsible for that and you go
learn about it and but but we there's
got to be some improvisation here so
that you don't tell each other exactly
what you've learned.
>> More or less I'm responsible for the
story with we carve out a one or
multiple chunks that Ben will take and
then Ben is responsible for the
analysis.
>> Right. And then you probably have some
lines you want to say that you know you
want to say uh but you want to say them
naturally. So you kind of have them
stored in the back of your head and you
wait for the moment where you can drop
it where it sounds casual like but if
you don't if that doesn't happen you set
it up like Ben's point like skew is
everything in Costco that you that kind
of insight the kind of you can reduce it
to there some something you want to get
across in a line or two. What's hard
about improv is disposing of all the
things you imagine that were going to
happen in a conversation before they
happen. And nobody does it perfectly.
And uh so there's this tension between,
you know, the script and what's
happening organically between the two of
you.
>> The truth is is is it both.
>> It's both.
>> So I I write I write a script. I write
10 to 20,000 words.
>> You do?
>> In sentence form, word.
>> Do you read it?
>> Uh no. Well, I I mean I read it. It
doesn't come out of my mouth. It it
comes out as a natural conversation.
>> So, you write it, but then you put it to
one side.
>> I have three screens in front of me.
>> You're kind of reading it.
>> I'm kind of reading it. Yeah. Yeah. Are
you? But but it but Ben interjects and
it's, you know, it doesn't come out
exactly as I wrote it.
>> It doesn't sound like a script.
>> Uh, but part of my process is I need to
write a script
>> to know what you think.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. It makes complete sense.
>> Well, but also to have it as a as a
crutch there when we're performing of
like
>> we can't keep all this in our heads.
>> But the real crutch you have is you can
go you're going to do it for nine hours
and it's only going to be four. So that
you can you can make any kind, you know,
you don't have to be perfect. You can
screw it up every which way.
>> And you have a real-time feedback agent
where like I'm I'm like this is
dragging. I don't care about any of this
prehistory. Like [laughter] cut cut.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> And then but yet yet all we hear the
audience here is that's amazing. Oh,
[laughter] that's so interesting. It's
incredible. I never thought of it that
way.
>> You're the best. I love you. [laughter]
So we don't see any of the other stuff.
>> No, no, no. Yeah, it's in there. It's
>> It's in there somewhere. Okay.
>> All right. What? So, take me further
into the process. So, you have you have
a script and you don't Ben, you don't
have a script.
>> I have a giant text edit document with
like just a whole bunch of mechanical
points I want to get across,
>> right? I have uh some story points in
there that I I know I want to interject
in David's story, but I know the things
that I'm going to bring to the episode
that I really care deeply about or
explaining how something works. So, I
have like written out bullet point by
bullet point by bullet point and then
>> and we've usually identified that's
going to enter in.
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
>> But it only this thing works because it
doesn't sound like you're reading
anything.
>> It sounds like
>> But the reality is it's a hybrid.
>> Okay. The reality is is a hybrid.
>> Yeah. And there's all sorts of stuff in
there that like I we are sort of looking
at about
>> six hours into recording and we're like
that's not going to make it in. And
that's okay. That turned out it was not
at a salient point,
>> right?
>> But the point of process power there is
like we can describe all this. You could
probably I'm sure you have described in
painstaking detail
>> how I do
>> how you do. But that doesn't mean
anybody else can write a Michael Lewis
book. the process. But your point is you
have the process power that that
>> but the point [laughter] of process
power is you could you can tell them
it's
>> I see. Oh, I see. Yeah, that's
interesting. That you have a process
that can't be replicated even if you
explain
>> even if we explain in excruciating
detail exactly what it is.
>> What pops to my mind
>> is that the the magic the pixie dusk in
a process is trust.
>> That it's like something that you get
when you trust a process
>> here. Trust the process. Yeah, Daryl
[laughter] goes to Sam Hinky, but the
ownership of the Phil 76ers, they didn't
trust the process. They they wanted the
process. They wanted to replicate what
they've been doing in Houston, but they
didn't trust it. And
>> where does trust show up?
>> I was just about to say that I think I
trust my process. And it's it's a it's
selfrust, but that's a form of trust.
And I know if I just told it to someone
>> and they went and tried to do it, they'd
be thinking they'd be it'd make them
they'd wig out. Yeah,
>> I I got to record the things. I got to
do this. I got And so that in fact doing
it my way would be a kind of weird
handicap for them.
>> That's the process. Like if you if you
were to copy paste the process, it
wouldn't have the same results and it
might in fact be a handicap,
>> right? But there's something emotional
going on there. Uh
the difficulty in replicating it.
>> I also think it's because
when you describe your process, it is
lossy compression. The way compression
works in computing is you're taking a
large amount of data and you're
compressing it down into a smaller
amount of data, a different file format.
And if it's lossy, it means that you can
never fully recreate the original work.
>> This is a the MP3 codec or a JPEG. A
JPEG doesn't actually contain all the
RGB values from the original photo, but
like a human kind of can't tell most of
the time and so it's fine,
>> right?
>> Explaining a process is a lossy
compression of the actual process.
That's true. That's true. You're
actually not giving them everything
>> and you're not doing it intentionally.
>> No, it's just impossible.
>> Language is a lossy compression of
thought.
>> Yeah, true. That's an interesting
observation. Language is an a lossy
compression of of thought. But I think
if the reverse is also true for some
people
>> well and and uncompressing information,
it's so funny when you and I are
communicating. I had a thought. I
compressed it into a very narrow
bandwidth thing of speech. I told it to
you, you uncompressed it into your
brain. It might actually mean a pretty
different thing to you than it means to
me. That insight is at the bottom of my
creative process. I assume when I write
a book that what goes into people is
something different than came out of me
that that they are going to take it and
reassemble it in a different way. And so
I have to construct it in a way that
there's a hole for the reader to go in
and just do what they need to do with
it. that the more I just let the story
re tell itself, the less I I tried to
like influence the way he thought about
the story, the more the story landed.
And then of course when you do that,
you're giving people lots of options uh
you know in how they how they see the
story, how they understand the story.
>> It's the risk you take. uh and but it is
it's what makes it alive and and it's
why and it's why you get this huge range
of response to a a given story. But you
that you've got to actually just accept
that when you're saying something, the
other person gets to understand it
however they want to understand it. And
if you don't do that, what you get is is
something that's dead the next day. It's
like, yeah, yeah, you made your point,
but I didn't hear it or I don't want it.
So, this is always one of our like key
goals with with every episode is like no
matter what you think about the company,
>> right?
>> You're going to enjoy this episode and
you're going to learn something from it.
And then you may come away thinking like
>> it's about understanding
>> this company is terrible. You may come
away thinking this company is righteous.
Yep.
>> But like
>> sometimes we don't nail it. Sometimes
>> we don't always nail, but that's the
that's the goal. Yeah.
>> Yeah. No, that's I think it's a that's
it's a it's the creatively fun goal.
Yeah. Because that's the challenge
rather than just imposing your editorial
view on the world. Present it in as
elegant way as possible and let the
reader make what they make of it. Uh
once you realize that's the thing to do,
it's so much more fun than trying to
muscle people around. It's it's all of a
sudden you're dancing with a reader
instead of like hurling them all over
the dance floor. It also requires you to
learn something new while you're making
the creative work. Like if if you come
in with a point of view and you come in,
let's say we try to I was so afraid when
we were making Trader Joe's that we were
going to remake the Costco episode and I
was like this episode's going to suck
because we're not going to have the
original enthusiast but not as good
>> or it's Costco but it's for furniture
and we're like oh this is totally
different than Costco. You have to have
new insights that delight you as you're
researching it so that you can make
something great. And I think the reasons
acquired will eventually fail,
I don't think, come from like platform
disruption. Like, oh, Tik Tok's going to
make it so people want short form
instead of acquired. Maybe, but the more
likely reason that we eventually fail is
we stop being delighted by new things we
discover. So, we have nothing new to
deliver to listeners,
>> right? I agree with that. If you were
going to ask me how you were going to
fail, that's exactly the kind of thing I
would say. You just run out of you'd run
out of gas or run out of material that
that that made your socks go up and
down.
>> Okay, listeners, now is a great time to
thank one of our very favorite partners,
Shopify. And David, we recorded this
episode with Michael the week after
Thanksgiving. And while you and I were
nice and festive and coming off of some
relaxing time with family, the Shopify
team had been cranking because Black
Friday and Cyber Monday is of course the
biggest sales weekend of the year for
merchants around the world. Yeah. At the
very same time as we were recording,
Toby was sharing the final stats. So
Shopify merchants did 14.6 6 billion in
sales over the weekend, [laughter] which
was up 27% from last year. Over 15,000
entrepreneurs made their first sales and
81 million unique shoppers bought from
Shopify merchants. That is absolutely
nuts. That 4day sales volume number,
that's almost twice as much as Shopify's
entire annual volume when they went
public in 2015. Of course, as we
chronicled on our acquired episode on
Shopify back a few years ago,
>> just wild. And part of that growth was
that for the first time this year, a few
merchants were able to sell on Black
Friday directly inside ChatGpt thanks to
Shopify's partnership with OpenAI. So
like no links or redirects. Consumers
could ask ChatGpt about Black Friday
deals for products they're interested
in. And Shopify loaded actual checkout
flows directly within their Chat GPT
conversations. This is super cool.
Glossier, Away, Nike Strength, Majouri,
Spanx, and Skiims were all live on
ChatGpt on Black Friday with Shopify.
This is just one example of why Shopify
is so awesome and one of our very
favorite companies in the acquired
universe. Shopify lets anyone sell in
seconds online, in store, on mobile, on
social, on marketplaces, and now with AI
agents. And it's not just startups. It's
General Motors, it's Estee Lauder, it's
Mattel, and on and on and on.
>> So whether you are just starting out or
you're operating at global scale,
Shopify helps you sell anywhere your
customers are. So get started at
shopify.com/acquired
and just tell them that Ben and David
sent you.
>> All right. How are we going to end this?
This is your show.
>> Carveouts.
>> Carveouts. Yeah, we got to do So
>> carveouts. What does this even mean?
[laughter]
[gasps]
>> Okay. So, um, you you'll appreciate
this. Uh it was my wife's idea back
towards the beginning of the show. She
used to listen to um Slate's uh I think
it was a culture gabfest.
>> Yes.
>> And uh they uh they do cocktail chatter
at the end of episodes. It's just like
hey yep
>> something unrelated. And uh she was like
you guys should do that. That's fun.
>> Well I understand the idea of it. Why is
it called a car?
>> Well okay. So then we we were like this
was in a phase of acquired where we
wanted to brand everything like around
>> and so we thought okay what could we
call this? We're not going to call it
cocktail chatter. We came up with the
idea of a carveout. Like in an M&A
transaction, a you know, a carveout is
like this piece of the purchase price
goes to like this set of shareholders
for special reasons, their employees or
whatever.
>> Okay.
>> So these are the things we're carving
out as things that delight us that have
nothing to do with the rest of the
episode.
>> Yes.
>> But but the name is is just residual.
It's just a residue of your former
incarnation.
>> Yeah. We used to brand.
>> We used to have a thing called the LP
show because of we live. You know, we
had all these little branding.
>> Playbook is sort of a remnant of the
older version.
>> Yeah.
>> So, what are we going to do? What are
carve out? What what are the specific
things?
>> We have some categories that we're going
to throw out and then you got to tell us
and we'll tell you things this year that
we loved in this category. Typically
pieces of media or products or something
like that.
>> All right. We usually start with books.
>> That's kind of funny [laughter] having
you here.
>> Uh I mean so many of your books have
been archive over the years. Really?
>> Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, it's books that books that I've read
the that in the last year
>> books this year and then Yeah.
>> So, I got to confess I've had a very
weak reading year because I've been I've
been really deep in two projects where
I've been working and when I'm working
I'm often all I'm reading is for work.
But I can think of a couple. One at the
beginning of the year, one the one I
just put down. first one I read because
my son was in high school at the time
had read it and he was enthusing about
this 800page novel and I and I thought
that that just didn't happen very often
and it's it's it's been out a long time.
It's called The Name of the Wind by
Patrick Rothus
>> and it's a fantasy trilogy. He never got
to the third book and I don't know
what's happened to him. He's like
blocked but I've not found
situation. I'm hoping he's an acquired
listener and I would tell him I can come
help get you unblocked. I know how to
unblock writers. I have a secret power
here. And so,
>> do you have a secret life as a fiction
ghost writer?
>> I I do not.
>> But but you have a secret life as a
coach to writers and uh other writers.
And it's this thing was it was so
compelling. I couldn't believe how good
it was. And I couldn't believe how good
it was that he hasn't he's just gotten
stalled. But the name of the wind
Patrick Ruffus read at the beginning of
the year, very beginning of the year at
the end of the thing I just finished.
It's not like it's a great book, but I
think it's like it's so short and it's
of it's something that is speaking to
our moment in our speaks to how I govern
ourselves. It's um I always mispronounce
his name. It's Vanavar Bush.
>> Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Who who essentially created the American
Science Project. And it's a little it's
a basic I think he started it as a memo
to FDR then FDR died and it ended up
being a memo to Terry Truman about what
America could do if the government in
the right way got behind science. He was
saying look what we did with the
Manhattan project we can do with biology
we can do we would do with the other
hard sciences. He was describing not a
top- down approach not like the
government is going to just decide we're
going to we're going to fund it and let
the scientists figure out what they need
to work on was that was the that was the
big insight. So, those are two books.
>> How about you?
>> What books do you
>> um similar to you, we've been it's been
a research heavy year.
>> Yeah, we have young kids, so fun books
are
>> right.
>> Uh, one great book I read for research
was Last Man Standing to prep for the
Jamie Diamond interview.
>> That was really good.
>> Total page turner. Um, made it it was a
great It's about Yeah, it's about the
ascendy of history.
>> Jamie. Yeah. Uh, and then two is I just
love reading Morgan Howell and his new
book, The Art of Spending Money, is is
really fun. I mean, it's where I get
most of my like latent ideas of, "Hey,
hey, dummy, money is not going to make
you any happier."
>> He's a great explainer.
>> Oh,
>> great explainer.
>> So good.
>> Uh, my two are um first one is a reach
back to December of last year with the
Mars episode. Um, Emperors of Chocolate
by Joel Glenn Brener. You ever read
that?
>> You know, so good. I once I had a
chocolate related story and I flipped
through it and I didn't ever have time
to read the whole thing. But yes, I know
the book.
>> So it's the dual history of Hershey and
Mars together.
>> She it's a it's the I believe the only
big book she ever wrote. Uh and um it's
just a masterpiece. It's so it's so
good. Uh the other one um Morris Chang's
autobiography
>> that we got to read. It is currently
only in Chinese. Uh but we got to read
an English version of it to prep. Uh
it's it's so I mean you can watch
>> How did you do that? Who translated for
you?
>> This uh woman Karina Bao did a
translation for us
>> just for you.
>> Yeah.
>> She was working on it as a as just a pet
project uh anyway and uh uh accelerated
it for us. Uh okay. Books. Um podcasts
number two.
>> Well, this is this is a layup. It the
only the your podcast is the big
addition to my rotation. I started in
July and I've listened to I don't know
10 of them or something.
>> Well, thank you. But what in your what
is in your rotation besides acquired?
>> I'll listen
>> against the rules of course.
>> Well, I don't listen to my own thing. Uh
I listen to Malcolm Gladwell's
Revisionist History.
>> Yep.
>> I'll listen to uh the Smartless Guys
because I like them.
>> Your interview on that was great, too.
>> It was fun to do it. Um
what else will I listen to The Daily
some? Uh every now and then I'll dip
into a right-wing thing just to hear it.
just no that that
>> any any of your recommendations?
[sighs and gasps]
>> No. Uh,
not really. And and then kind of, you
know, random stuff like every now and
then Bill Simmons will have something I
I want to hear. I love Bill Simmons. I
just don't have time. Like it's
prolific.
>> You have eaten my podcast hours.
[laughter] You've eaten a lot of myies
to Bill.
>> No. No. And I can and I can tell you
where I was like treadmill in Denmark
when I listened to the Indian cricket
thing. Isn't that the most fun thing
about listening?
>> Yeah, you remember a place.
>> You do remember you do remember a place.
They're very place specific. And uh
>> No, the acquired podcast is the new
thing I've [laughter]
>> All right. How about you all?
>> I listened to an episode of Invest Like
the Best about a year ago, which was a
really, really long interview with
Graham Duncan.
>> Oh yeah, that was really good. That was
really good. That was originally Didn't
he Patrick do that as like a private
podcast and then Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> And then he did a shorter version. I
haven't listened to the shorter version.
And I only listen to the like super long
one. But uh one of my biggest takeaways
from that is about having a uh the
correct grip
>> that you don't want to have too tight of
a grip on your work, but you don't want
to have too loose of a grip. You need to
play with an appropriate grip
for whatever the task is that you're
trying to do. And you'll if if you're
gripping too tight, you know, you're
going to pull it or you're going to it's
going to feel too mechanical, too
unnatural. And if it's too loose, like
you're not minding the shop enough. you
know, you're you get got to get your
head back in the game. And there's an
>> Yeah, there's
>> I've been amazed my career how just how
useful sports analogies are to to
writing. Uh I'm sure to everything, but
these physical memories translate pretty
neatly to how the mind with the mind is
doing too. And that uh like when I write
a book, I'm on a pitcher's mound.
>> It takes me back to pitching in high
school and I know and I'm I'm thinking
of of the reader as the hitter. getting
meaning across to a reader is is tricky
in the way that fooling a hitter is
tricky. And and it's just I can feel
that connection. And so these physical
analogies are really useful even if
there sometimes a stretch.
>> Speaking of sports, mine is uh the glue
guys podcast which I think we both went
on this year. Yeah.
>> Uh it was actually was the origin of us
of us uh meeting. Um
>> those guys are great.
>> They are great.
>> I think we told them on the episode I I
tell them all them like you guys got it.
Like you guys got some magic here. You
got to got to keep doing this.
>> You keep telling everybody that they run
their their podcast business in the
wrong way and you're right. You and you
you depress everybody else that you
figured out how to do it. Nobody else
has.
>> Well, I thought they just they just
they've got magic. Like they just like
they are taking it seriously and keeping
doing it. But like I think it's a really
really they have the really rare dynamic
of like just the three of them together
regardless if they have a guest, don't
have a guest. Like it's they're they're
equally good.
>> They're very different personalities,
too. That helps.
>> Can I just I'm so uh like something
inside me feels so crunchy. I don't
think we've figured out a better way to
do it. Like I don't think we figured out
the way to do it and everybody else
should just snap to our way. It's like
we have an enormous amount of
privilege that we can run a business in
this way and most people have
constraints that prevent them from doing
this.
>> It's not that we're right and everybody
else is wrong. It's that we have like
set up a particular system that works
for us.
>> But it is like you're right and I'm
wrong that I that this really is a way
of running a business that we could have
done with against the rules and it and
I'm going to go think about it. Uh but
anyway, so what's our next card?
>> Okay. Okay. Next next category is um
>> video
movies TV shows.
>> So I just saw a movie two days ago. Two
nights ago. We went to the theater.
Whole family went to the theater.
>> Wow. and Jay Kelly. It's new Noah
Bombck's new movie and it is it's George
Clooney. I guess you'd say he's playing
a he's playing George Clooney with a
midlife crisis that he that it's it's
it's a f he's playing a famous actor
who's trying to sort out uh the meaning
of his life. It's just magical. It's a
beautiful movie and and an ambitious
really ambitious movie in that I was
I've been thinking about it
>> kind of since I saw it like what exactly
it was getting across and was getting
across I think being famous like a movie
star is puts you at a certain distance
to the world around you and that
distance has a price and it was sort of
taking the measure of that price be and
and which which makes that more general
is that I think everybody has to make
some decisions about the distance that
they keep the world at. And uh this was
a this is a way of having that that
conversation in entertaining what that
distance should be.
>> Got to see it. I have so many, but
there's one that's like
>> you're like you're a TV guy.
>> I love movies and I love television. The
um like I have no video games to
recommend, but I have lots of these. The
one that's just head and shoulders
everything else and is the greatest
performance art I've ever seen in my
entire life is the rehearsal season 2.
All right.
>> Nathan Fielder and Eric Natarn Nicola,
who we actually got to work with. Uh,
Eric and A24 Films shot the sort of
concert film part of our Radio City show
and collaborating with Eric was
unbelievable. But
>> he was so great.
>> Before any of that, I saw the rehearsal
season 2 and my jaw is just on the floor
with the [laughter] level
>> you were talking about this for months.
>> Ambition. Uh, they're Nathan's a
complete psycho and it's the highest
commitment to the bed I've ever seen in
any form of media. I mean, I don't want
to spoil anything, but have have you
seen it?
>> I have not seen it. I will now go see
it.
>> It is uh uh I was shaking.
>> Okay.
>> All right. I'm I'm a lighter uh video
guy. I'm a YouTube guy mostly. Um my my
YouTube uh uh for the year is is one
I've recommended before, a past collab.
Uh Doug Demiro is still like killing it.
I just like I think Doug is probably my
favorite YouTuber. Like he's just uh
>> What does he do? Because I don't
>> He is uh he's the biggest car reviewer.
Like I'm not really that into cars, but
he just first they got everybody
interested in cars who weren't
interested in cars.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And Doug is like he does
these delightful reviews of like I just
love, you know, watching like mid-range
SUV reviews that I'm never going to
[laughter] buy.
>> I just love them.
>> So listeners will like this. David falls
asleep to this.
>> Yeah. Like you watch Doug in other
things too, but like Doug is your
>> Yeah. Yeah. like he'll he'll release a
new review and I'll like watch it fall
asleep over like 5 minutes.
>> What you watch before you go to bed?
>> Totally.
>> So, how does it affect your dreams?
[laughter]
>> That's a good question.
>> Do you dream? Do you like have Lightning
McQueen dreams? What do you have? What
you kind of dream?
>> No, no, no. The beauty of Doug, his his
key insight was, you know, all the other
car YouTubers are making making videos
for car enthusiasts,
>> right?
>> He makes videos for like people who need
to buy a family SUV. Like, so I mean, he
also reviews supercars and like, etc.,
etc., but like most of his content.
>> Seriously, I thought you would spend
half half your dreams on in automobiles.
No, he's not.
>> I want to list like a bunch. I'm not
going to give commentary on them just
because a lot of people are watching
stuff over the holidays and here's a
bunch of things I've loved in the last
year. Tires, the TV show, so funny. F1
the movie I thought was very
entertaining. I got to watch it.
>> Beautiful production quality. My
favorite tri uh Expensify paid $40
million for the
>> rumored
>> rumored $40 million for the sponsorship
of the the fake team in the movie.
>> That's right.
>> So great.
>> Uh Andor
some of the best thing if not the best
thing in the Star Wars modern Star Wars
franchise available on Disney Plus. Uh
the show Fallout so good and season 2 is
about to come back. I think that's a
Jonah Nolan and Lisa Joy again artists
like I was saying about Nathan Fielder.
Severance was amazing. Silo has a new
season coming out that I can't wait.
>> The books are really good. Yes,
>> I like the books.
>> Yeah, those are my TV recommendations.
>> Nice. Uh, next category, which might
just be me, is video games.
>> Just you.
>> Just me. [clears throat] Yeah. So, one
of the greatest moments in my parenting
journey thus far, my older daughter is
four, is I got her into video games. We
play video games together now every
night. It's just like it's the best.
Like, this is what I have been waiting
for. [laughter]
But I need to give a shout out again to
Sea of Stars, which is an indie
throwback RPG, which I bought just for
me on my Steam Deck. And we were on
vacation in Santa Barbara, and she was
like, "Dad, what are you doing?" And
that like that was it. Like I like I
wasn't trying. It was like she came up
to me as I'm playing, you know, this
like indie RPG and like she started
playing it. Like that was like I I never
would have guessed that this was my
daughter's entry into video games. Uh,
and then two, Kirby, uh, and the
Forgotten Land on the Switch is like
perfect. We can play it together. It's
co-op. Uh, it's great for me, it's great
for her. It's awesome.
>> So, your daughter is at an age where
she'll do anything you want to do. No,
>> cuz she wants to be with you.
>> No, no, no, no, no, no, no. You don't
know my daughter. [laughter]
>> She is extremely independent.
>> It's anomalous and awesome that she has.
>> This is a rare occurrence. All right.
>> She runs the house. Like, yeah. No, no.
Uh, so this is this is like so much joy
for me. Great [laughter]
>> products. What are some products that
you have come to own in the last year
that you have [snorts] just thought are
awesome or improve life?
>> I found a new pen. I got it here. Let's
see what it is. And it's just like I
needed a pen that had just the right
sort of fine fine point and that it that
it's kind of generous with ink, but it
doesn't explode on an airplane
>> and doesn't smear. I imagine
>> doesn't smear it. I'm looking at it now.
The RS Tekka roller ball pen 7 fine. And
I just ordered a whole case of them
because I I it just it's finally got a
pen I just love.
>> Listeners, if you want to write like
Michael Lewis, we have the answer.
>> This is an example [laughter] of
explaining someone's process.
>> So that so that pen is is a thing.
>> What else? Other products this year.
>> The Fujifilm X100 VI. I previously
specifically did not carve it out and
carved out a different camera. I've
started carrying the Fujifilm and and
now love it. It's amazing. I've got a
2-year-old and it's just so nice to have
more than just smartphone pictures of
family. It's awesome.
>> Nice.
>> I'm just looking at what I have on like
camera. So,
>> ex officio. That's that's
>> No. So, we But we're not going to talk
about those. That [laughter] wasn't this
year. That wasn't We're only talking
about not until they sponsor me. But the
uh but anyway, that wasn't this year.
But this year, actually, on my feet,
these are these are things
>> these socks I ran out of white socks in
London. I went over to Is it Unilo?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> And they didn't have any. I was just
looking for athletic socks, right? And
they have these other things instead.
They've turned out to be so much better
than the athletic socks. And they come
in different colors. So you can you can
like a light gray. You can wear them as
dress socks. You can wear them as
athletic socks. And they like whenever I
I don't know about you, whenever I find
something I love, what's about to happen
is it's about to be discontinued.
>> You need to buy all of them.
>> You need to buy all of them. Yes. Right.
So I I I'm I got I didn't get quite all
of them cuz I was flying I got them in
London. I was going to have to fly back
with them, but I bought I bought
basically what was in the store at the
moment. And these shoes. So, um,
>> those ons.
>> These are ons.
>> And, um, oddly, I spent a couple days
with Roger Federer this summer
>> and I and I just discovered them. So, I
we had the, uh, the on conversation and
made me kind of like acceptable to him.
But it was um, but the on I think these
these ons I was a ha guy.
>> Oh,
>> also great. Also great. Nike basically
blew it, right? They let these they let
they got rid of their stores. They
thought it's all going to be online and
on and Hokco roll in. And I'm a little
torn, but not that torn. I'm kind of
these ones are just like un they're
it's uh
>> especially the white ones. I get I I'm
getting criticized for it because I
started wearing them instead of even
dress shoes
>> and like on I went on the cold bear with
with these and like I got eight calls
saying you can't do that again. Really?
>> Yeah. like it looks
>> I keep wearing ons all the time like
>> Yeah. They just don't look good on TV or
whatever. So, but I've been I've been
overwearing both the Uniqlo socks and
the but that's a sign of enthusiasm.
>> That's right.
>> There you go.
>> And isn't isn't the Federer on deal like
one of the best endorsement deals by an
athlete ever
>> measured by how how much money he gets
paid.
>> Didn't he do like an equity deal early
with?
>> Yeah, I think that might be right.
>> He only aligns with companies whose
products he really likes.
>> Rolex. It's an amazing
>> It's amaz how easy it is. Right.
>> Also, he's Roger Feder.
>> He's also Roger Feder, [laughter] right?
>> It's similar. Well, similar but
different. Uh I bought a Ramoa suitcase
this year and I love it. It's just a
suitcase, but
>> like I I love it. I got um I can tell
you uh Ramoa uh LVMH bought this uh it's
a suitcase. Got German suitcase company
couple. They make the the like aluminum
shell
in your step every time you show up.
>> Yeah. Well, and I got the um
>> It's exciting to find new luggage.
>> Totally. I mean, [laughter] I don't know
what why it is so exciting, but it's
hard to find new luggage.
>> Well, my whole life I've just
>> middle-aged men sitting around talking
about luggage on the podcast. [laughter]
>> No, you know, you find the new bag.
>> You know, your life is going to be
different.
>> I've always been a minimal packing like
backpack only like I just maximum
efficiency.
>> You assume you're going to be washing
your clothes wherever you go.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But but this is the first
time I've just been like, you know what,
I'm just going to get a nice piece of
luggage and like it's not the most
efficient way to but like I just like
it. It makes me happy. [laughter]
>> It's great. Uh the um
>> parenting
>> uh parenting. Yeah, let's go to
parenting. Uh feel free to decline on
this. We we for the for the young
>> two and uh four and four and 18 months.
>> Yeah.
>> So the first is discovering guided
access on the iPad. It's an
accessibility setting where you can make
it so none of the buttons do anything
and it doesn't respond to taps.
>> So on an airplane they can't they can't
mess with last about six minutes for you
[laughter] and then he's going to be
like
>> f you dad. make it work. So, these are
products for parenting.
>> These are products for parenting. If you
are a parent of uh of kids our kids'
age, the last one is the movie Toy
Story. We It's the first movie we
introduced him to. It was my favorite
movie growing up. Um and it's been
really fun.
>> He took to it.
>> Uh he took to it. He loves Mr. Potato
Head. He calls it Tapo Head. And so, he
always runs into the room and says,
"Tapo head TV." And that means I want to
watch Toy Story.
>> So, as I alluded to, my older daughter
is a um independent woman, shall we say?
Uh we bought this when she was younger
and she completely rejected it. The
slumber pod. Uh do you have one of
these? Oh yeah.
>> Yeah. So this is a blackout tent.
>> We have two of these over uh a portable
crib. So when you're traveling, you
basically just put you put your baby in
like a sensory deprivation.
>> Oh, you set up the noise machine right
next to it, too. You really
>> isolate. And for most kids, like I I
remember reading hearing about this from
people that like it's a miracle. I tried
it with our older daughter and she was
just like like absolute nuclear, you
know, [laughter] like no way is this
gonna work. Uh, and so I shied away from
it. Uh, and then we went on a trip
recently and I brought it back for my
younger daughter cuz I was like, "All
right, well, we'll give it a shot." And
worked like a charm.
>> Can I just interrupt here for a moment?
>> Yeah.
>> Is it a kind of end zone dance you're
doing of your business model that you're
just at the end of this offer free
endorsements [laughter] of consumer
products without actually nobody having
to pay you for anything? You just do it.
You do this with a flick of the wrist
because we don't even need the
advertising revenues. [laughter]
>> No, we just started because it was fun.
These are things we like.
>> It's good.
>> Yeah. Yeah,
>> that's good.
>> Uh and then my my last one, this is um
fun because it's a tie-in with our Radio
City uh show. I brought the whole family
to uh New York for Radio City. Uh Bluey,
we got to do a Bluey episode someday. Is
this incredible phenomenon? I don't know
if it's crossed your radar.
>> No. What is it? Uh, Blueie is the
greatest kid show ever made, bar none.
Uh, it is
>> that's a big claim.
>> It's this guy in Australia uh in
Brisbane and he made it uh he was I
think an animator for Peppa Pig and then
made this BL and it's it's like
>> but the claim isn't that I love Bluey
like it's just so
>> Disney agrees with David.
>> Yeah. Disney has been trying to buy
Blueie uh for years. uh for ever
escalating amounts of money.
>> And they just did a deal which I think
is the first of its kind to use Bluey IP
in the Disney universe without owning
it.
>> Uh I think I think news just came out
today that Blue is coming to Animal
Kingdom in Disney World in 2026. Uh it's
it's basically like it's the Pixar who
owns Blue. It's think of it as Pixar of
this generation.
>> Is Blue owned by his creator?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Who is Joe Brum? This is
Guy.
>> It's like the Muppets.
>> Uh yeah. Yeah, it is. It's like Jim
Henson and the Muppets. So, in New York,
in New York City, you can buy tickets.
You get like a 45minute window. You can
take your family, you take your kids to
Bluey's house, a recreation of Bluey's
house inside a building in Union Square.
That's like great. If you got kids into
Blueie, go to New York, take them to
Blue Camp.
>> My kids would find that a little
strange, but okay. [laughter]
>> It's true. We keep saying kids, kids of
eight, they know. Yeah. Eight under. But
yeah, right.
>> That's all we got for carvets. That's
all we got too.
>> Michael, anything else? Pleasure.
>> Thank you so much. What a what a joy.
Thank you for giving us your uh your
evening.
>> This is the longest I've spoken to
anyone in the last four years.
[laughter]
>> Um thank you for doing this with us.
>> My pleasure. Anytime. See you at your
20th.
>> Great. We'll see you in 10 years.
>> All right, listeners. Thank you so much
for listening and being on this journey
with us. David, very fun way to try to
unpack why Acquired worked there with
Michael. [laughter]
[gasps]
>> Uh, if you had told us 10 years ago when
we made the Pixar episode that we'd be
sitting down with Michael Lewis to
analyze ourselves
>> and trade notes. Oh, how my creative
process works.
>> Yeah.
>> Unbelievable.
>> Unbelievable. Thank you, Michael, for
doing this with us.
>> So good. Uh, we have another thank you
to Shep Films. This is the crew that
made this one look so good. You'll
notice that this was not just David and
I setting up a few cameras like we've
done with Steve Balmer, Morris Chang.
This was actually produced. And so we
have a giant thank you to the uh Shep
Films, Sh Films Company. Uh they do
amazing work. They've made like full
2hour movies with Pedro Pascal and you
know make sci-fi movies and they do
stuff like this. And so we're just
delighted to have worked with them.
Thank you to our partners this season.
JP Morgan Payments, trusted, reliable
payments infrastructure for your
business, no matter the scale. That's JP
Morgan.com/acquired.
To Sentry, the best way to monitor for
issues in your software and fix them
before users get mad. That's
century.io/acquired.
To work, the best way to make your app
enterprise ready, starting with single
sign on in just a few lines of code.
Shopify, the best way to sell, whether
online, offline, AI, anywhere, whether
you are a large enterprise or just a
founder with a big idea. That's
shopify.com/acquired.
Listeners, if you like this episode, go
check out our episodes on TSMC, Hermes,
Costco, the NFL, Berkshire, or any other
episode that we talked about there with
Michael. After this episode, check out
ACQ2. We had Andrew Ross Orcin on, and
it was awesome. Speaking of trading
notes on the creative process, very
different job that he does, but uh you
know, rhymes with acquired in some ways.
So, you can search ACQ2 in any podcast
player. Come talk about this with us in
the Slack. Or if you don't want the
Slack, but you do want email, we just
did a huge, huge overhaul to our email
system. It's no longer just going to
notify you when a new episode comes out.
There's all sorts of goodies in that
notification email like our takeaways
from the episodes, some behind the
scenes photos, corrections from past
episodes. It's the place to be. So, you
can join that at acquired.fm/e.
>> It really is beautiful. And uh we might
have [music] some more upgrades to all
the
>> That's right.
>> What do you call it? Like the chrome
around Acquired.
>> Yes.
>> Coming in 2026. So stay tuned.
>> That's a great way to put it. Well, with
that, listeners, we'll see you next
time.
>> We'll see you next time. Who got the
truth? [music]
Is it you? Is it you? Is it you? Who got
the truth now? Huh?
[music]